In a move to tackle the increasing cases of sexual offenses in the state, the Kano State Government has launched a database, Sexual Offenders Database (SOD), where offenders will be named and shamed. The database which was launched by the Chief Judge (CJ) of the state, Nura Sagir Umar, at the state high hourt, is aimed at curbing the menace of sexual offences by exposing information about the sexual offence, name, photo, number of times sexual offenders commit the crime, dates, places, convictions, reports and arraignments. Police arrest 4 with pistol in Edo Police invite Burna Boy, arrest 5 escorts over shooting at nightclub The Centre for Information Technology And Development (CITAD) had in its May, 2022, Gender-Based Violence (GBV) publication, reported increase in GVB by 150 per cent in the state, hence urged the need for quick intervention to address the problem. Speaking while launching the SOD, the CJ, Justice Umar, said the development became necessary considering the fact that GBV had been on the increase since the advent of social media in the last 20 years. He said, “Every stakeholder must work towards curbing the menace by proactively protecting the family, which in the end will protect the society.” He then called for the official publication of the sexual offenders register to be made available or posted at public offices in local government areas to name and shame, and serve as a deterrent to others. The state’s Coordinator, RoLAC, Ibrahim Bello, said the database, if successfully implemented, would address cases of offenders moving to other places to commit the same offences. Also speaking, the Grand Khadi of Kano State, Dr Tijjani Yakasai, appreciated the launch of the SOD, adding that the “zero tolerance policy” declared by the state government was a step in the right direction as the menace was very disturbing. On his part, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Usman Alhaji, represented by the Commissioner for Justice, Muhammad Abdullahi Lawan, said Kano State was fully ready to support the SOD. In his remarks, Kano State Commissioner of Police, Ismaila Dikko, represented by the O/C, Gender, Kano, CSP Loveth Jomo, describe the SOD as a welcome development.