The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has commenced demolition of over 100 buildings constructed on waterways at Dutse Makaranta, a densely populated settlement in Bwari Area Council. The administration said it could no longer wait for unwilling residents to comply with early warnings to save lives after the flooding that occurred in the community four days ago. Train attack: Captives’ relatives seek reps’ intervention Accord Party debunks A/Ibom govt sponsorship claims The Senior Special Assistant to the FCT Minister on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement, Ikharo Attah, who led the demolition team on Wednesday to the community, said it would be very irresponsible for any government to wait for residents who were not willing to obey extant directives. Attah, who expressed disgust that occupiers and owners of the buildings on waterways in the community had deliberately refused to heed warnings, said the administration was wielding the big stick to save lives, property and environment. He noted that it was an act of God that the flooding that swept through the area four days ago did not leave any record of death. He said, “Today we are commencing a citywide operation against buildings sitting on water plains and riverbeds. Here in Dutse Makaranta, you could see heavy flooding. We thank God the rain fail on Sunday afternoon at about 1pm when many had left for the church and school was closed. The water got to the window level and members had fled. The casualties here would have been extremely massive.’’ A resident of the community, Ibrahim Shaibu, acknowledged that the flooding three days ago was unprecedented, but thanked God that no life was lost. He said the indigenous people should be blamed for whatever destruction the flooding caused as they had continued to resell the place after each demolition exercise. Another resident, James Badeh, pleaded with the administration to carry out the exercise with a human face, adding that many of the affected residents had no place to go with their children. 