The federal government has moved to fast-track the removal of the only impediment stalling the connection of the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge to the rail track. Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki disclosed that the radioactive scanner belonging to the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) would be demolished before the end of the month. She spoke in Lagos yesterday while inspecting the affected building at APM Terminals in Apapa port. Daily Trust reports that track laying has already reached the Apapa Port but it has been stalled at APM Terminal for the past year. This, according to the contractor, the China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC) was due to a building belonging to the NCS occupying a space within the right of way. It was learnt that only about 100 meters of the track is left to link the rail to the Apapa Port quay but this was being stalled by the scanner. “The working space for the transitional line at Apapa APMT is not yet provided up till now. According to the work programme, this space will be provided on 4th July 2021 by the APMT,” the contractor had stated last month during an oversight visit by the National Assembly members. But Saraki yesterday said the demolition of the customs building would be carried out before the end of the month. She said, “We want to ensure that before the end of next month, the activities here have improved. By the end of this month, we want to ensure that the removal of this Customs facility, which is on the rail track is resolved. The goal is to have this track operational by the end of this month. “Although this building looks big, it is actually a minor issue that will be resolved by the time the Federal Ministry of Transportation, Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) sit together to discuss it. “It has been agreed that the building is going to be demolished but the fact is that it is a radioactive facility. It is a scanner and we have to ensure that the demolition is done safely.”