 Meta, formerly Facebook, has launched a digital capacity building programme for 1,500 non-profit personnel across Anglophone West Africa. The training seeks to help non-profit and social enterprises across Nigeria acquire the skills and provide them with information that will increase their overall digital awareness. Meta had also at an event which was held in Lagos announced its support for Geda Digital training, a six-month Social Innovators Bootcamp Programme for Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs). This training is aimed at supporting the non-profit and social impact sector across Anglophone West Africa. In 2021, Meta held a series of engagements with the social impact sector, including listening sessions and training for non-profit organisations. It also held pilot sessions of its Meta Non-Profit programme with partners in Tanzania, Nigeria and South Africa. Head of Public Policy for Anglophone West Africa, Adaora Ikenze, in her opening address during the launch of the digital training said Meta recognises the needs of the NGOs and as such partnering with NGOs that leverage its family of apps for impact. “We are delighted to provide the required support in up-skilling them to scale and strengthen the work they do within their communities,” she said. Also, the Special Advisor to President Muhammadu Buhari on Social Investments, Maryam Uwais, in her keynote address commended the initiatives of Meta towards developing people working in the non-profit sector. “This investment is deeply appreciated by the Federal Government of Nigeria. Meta has continuously been a partner to the government, and we must continue with this partnership to make Nigeria a better place,” she said. During a fireside chat at the event, Chief Executive Officer of FATE Foundation, Adeyemi Adenike, stressed the need for NGOs to identify cost effective methods of reaching their target audience and sharing their impact stories, especially by leveraging Meta family of apps. Chidi Koldsweat, Founder/CEO, Donors for Africa Foundation, stated that the collaboration with Meta on the Geda Digital Training will be helpful in providing visibility for NGOs.