A former commissioner for Finance under the administration of Otunba Gbenga Daniel in Ogun State, Kehinde Sogunle, yesterday emerged as the governorship candidate of Labour Party (LP) in the state. Sogunle was declared the winner of the election after defeating his opponent, Otunba Gboyega Ijaola, at the primary election, held at the secretariat of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Abeokuta, Ogun State. Declaring Sogunle the winner of the election, the chairman of the election planning committee, Comrade Oluwole Sokunbi said, “By the power conferred on me as the chairman of the planning committee, I hereby declare Hon. Kehinde Anthony Sogunle as the winner of the election through affirmation by the 100 delegates here as the Labour Party (LP) governorship candidate of Ogun State.” Sogunle, in his acceptance speech, pledged to embark on a mission to rescue the people, resetting and renewing the polity. He announced Dr Aishat Lawal Keshiro, a former permanent secretary in the state as his running mate. Sogunle vowed to rescue the state from the fangs of the ruling All Progressives Congress which, according to him, has plunged the state into failure, adding that the state has suffered enough following the failure of the APC. Also, Action Democratic Party (ADP) has picked Dr Sani Dawop as its governorship candidate in Plateau State. Sani’s candidacy was affirmed, yesterday, by the party’s delegates through a voice vote at a primary held in Jos, Plateau State. In his acceptance speech, Sani said if elected, he would work hard to ensure meaningful development in the state. In Niger State, Umar Larat Aliyu emerged as the governorship flag bearer of the Young Progressive Party (YPP). The party’s delegates also elected candidates for the State House of Assembly. Aliyu appreciated the delegates and party leaders for finding him worthy of the party’s flag in 2023. “We know the problem and what the solution should be. In the coming days, we will be unveiling our blueprint to the public,” he said in his acceptance speech.  From Peter Moses (Abeokuta), Ado A. Musa (Jos) & Abubakar Akote (Minna)    