At least 13 presidential aspirants across different political parties have courted former President Olusegun Obasanjo over their ambitions, turning his Abeokuta residence in Ogun State, to a Mecca of sorts, Daily Trust Saturday reports.  Former President Olusegun Obasanjo upon completion of his two-term presidency (1999-2007) had asserted himself as one of the major deciders of successive presidents in Nigeria with his political influence transcending the shores of Nigeria. He played critical roles in the emergence of late President Umaru Musa Yar’adua, his direct successor, Dr Goodluck Jonathan, as well President Muhammadu Buhari, at least during his first term. Despite their political differences, in 2013, former Lagos State governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, begged Obasanjo to be APC’s navigator to the 2015 presidential election. “You have come out of tribulation and held the highest position in this country. We are here because of your courage and salient points. Nobody can say he has more information than you,” Tinubu had told Obasanjo in Abeokuta. Buhari won that election, defeating incumbent President Jonathan, in what had turned a major upset in Nigeria’s political history. And when the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) blew the whistle on the 2023 presidential contest, top contenders across political divides have been stumbling on each other at Obasanjo’s palatial residence in Abeokuta, Ogun State, to secure his blessing. Not less than 13 of them have already visited him. To all of them, Obasanjo has maintained his stance of being non-partisan. VP Yemi Osinbajo On March 28, Osinbajo met with Obasanjo in Abeokuta, Ogun State. He visited two days after the APC convention. Although he was at the Obasanjo’s OOPL for a high-level dialogue organised by the Coalition for Dialogue on Africa (CODA), attended by many African leaders, it was reliably gathered that after the event, Osinbajo and Obasanjo held a private meeting where the VP informed him of his presidential ambition. Supporters of Osinbajo had thronged the venue of the dialogue with his campaign posters, banners and fliers, but Obasanjo scolded them saying the event was not political. Atiku Abubakar On February 26, former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar said he is confident that he will win the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Atiku held a closed-door meeting with his former boss over his presidential bid. He had arrived at the penthouse residence located within Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Abeokuta, Ogun State, at 10:10am and went straight into a closed-door meeting with the former president. Atiku visited Obasanjo before he officially declared his presidential bid. Speaking with journalists after the one-hour long meeting, the former vice-president said he was confident to get a PDP ticket. “Have I ever failed to get a ticket? I’m confident,” he said. Daily Trust Saturday reports that in 2018, Obasanjo said he had forgiven Atiku for some grievances he had against him while in office and endorsed him as his candidate for the 2019 presidential election. Prior to that, Obasanjo often criticised his former vice and alleged he had cases of corruption against him internationally. However, Obasanjo in a u-turn called Atiku “president-to-be.” He did not win that election which earned Buhari a second term in office. Bukola Saraki On May 9, former Senate President Senator Bukola Saraki, also met with the former President behind closed doors over his presidential ambition. Saraki, who was accompanied by the former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Abubakar Kawu Baraje, arrived at the premises of the OOPL at 12:04pm. While emerging from the meeting, Saraki explained the reason behind his visit to Obasanjo. He said, “I’m in Ogun State to see PDP delegates, but I can’t come to Ogun State and not pay a visit to the former president, our father and leader of modern Nigeria, somebody I’m very close to since I started my political career. So, I came to see him to let him know that I’m in Ogun State and to see how good and how well he is doing.” Udom Emmanuel Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State, on May 4 also met with Obasanjo and told the former President that he was ready to rescue Nigeria if elected president in 2023. The governor said his visit was in continuation of his ongoing consultation with strategic stakeholders in the country. In his response, Obasanjo told him that “Your presidential bid is a fair and legitimate thing to ask for.” Rabiu Kwankwaso Former Kano State Governor and presidential aspirant of the New Nigerian Peoples Party (NNPP), Sen Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, also visited Obasanjo on May 20. His visit alongside the leaders of the NNPP including the Ogun State Chairman, Oginni Olaposi, was to seek Obasanjo’s backing on his presidential bid. Kwankwaso is leading the NNPP which appears to have held the nation’s polity by the storm. The NNPP has had its major political recruits from Kano where former Governor Ibrahim Shekarau, present and former lawmakers have joined its folds. Bala Mohammed Also on February 24, Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, visited Obasanjo in Abeokuta, over his presidential bid. Mohammed, who met Obasanjo behind closed doors, spoke with newsmen after the meeting. The governor stated that he had visited Obasanjo over issues involving the PDP. While alluding to the fact that Obasanjo is no more in partisan politics, Mohammed posited that, “we are rebuilding our party to remove rancour, division and what-have-you. So, we still need him, because his words of wisdom are always very useful.” Mohammed Hayatu-Deen Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, another PDP presidential aspirant, visited Obasanjo on May 19. He told Obasanjo that Nigeria needs rescue In response, Obasanjo said he believes Hayatu-Deen “is made enough to rule Nigeria.” “We need four things,” continued Obasanjo. “We need knowledge. If knowledge is adequate, we would do what is right, when it is right and in the right way. “We need vision. What is the vision that we have? If we have no vision, it means we are blind. “We need passion. When you said you are involved (in the presidential race) with a passion, it means madness; you are mad about the state of Nigeria. I am mad about Nigeria; I have no other country to call my own. And I look at you and I see passion.” Hayatu-Deen thanked Obasanjo for welcoming him and his entourage to his home. Godswill Akpabio Former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and APC Presidential Aspirant, Godswill Akpabio, visited Obasanjo on May 19. Akpabio described Obasanjo as “party less”, insisting that no political party could lay claims to him. He said his desire to build on the achievements recorded by President Muhammadu Buhari and other former Nigerian leaders like Chief Olusegun Obasanjo and prioritize critical sectors of the economy has motivated him in aspiring to become the next president of Nigeria. Obasanjo wished Akpabio well and hoped God’s will be done in Nigeria. Nyesom Wike On May 23, Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, alongside Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State and a former Cross River Governor, Donald Duke, met with Obasanjo over Wike’s presidential bid. The governors arrived at Obasanjo’s residence at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library at 6.40 pm. The meeting lasted for about an hour. Obasanjo later led the PDP leaders to address journalists shortly after the meeting.  He admitted that Wike informed him of his presidential ambition. Obasanjo described the country as a complex country but not difficult to manage if a “courageous leader is elected”. “Courage, he (referring to Wike) doesn’t lack it, and if you have courage and you have the conviction to speak your mind, well you will have a saying in this part of the world that a person who speaks the truth all the time may not even get a mat spread for him because you will incur the displeasure of people, but you need the truth to be spoken and to get ourselves move Nigeria on the path of unity,” Obasanjo said. Responding, Wike described the day as one of the happiest days of his life. Sam Ohuabunwa His visit was laced with controversy. In March, the founder of New Nigeria Group (NNG) and presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, paid Obasanjo a visit. And following the visit, reports emerged that Obasanjo had declared his support for Igbo presidency. But Obasanjo refuted the claims. Obasanjo through a statement by his Media Aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, accused Ohuabunwa of putting words into his mouth. Dele Momodu The celebrity journalist and PDP presidential aspirant met with Obasanjo at least twice since he made his intention to run for the presidency known. A young PDP presidential aspirant, Ugochukwu Williams, and Professor Christopher Imumolen, an aspirant on the platform of Accord Party, were also part of politicians who have embarked on “pilgrimage” to Obasanjo’s residence to have his blessing on April  3 and April 17 respectively.