Two electricity unions in the country, Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEAC) and National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) under the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) have threatened to disrupt power supply in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and environs if the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) fails to honour their demands. The unions issued a seven-day ultimatum to EFCC to meet their demands: to tender an unreserved apology, compensation for affected AEDC staff and repair of damaged AEDC property by EFCC operatives, end to EFCC impunity against law-abiding citizens and demand from EFCC to delist their profiled members from its database. 2023: DSS warns against violence, hate speech Military moves to flush out soldiers with ‘divided loyalty’ The unions issued the ultimatum in a press release jointly signed by Comrade James Matthew, Deputy General Secretary FCT of SSAEAC; and Comrade Engr Kolade Ayodele, Zonal Organising Secretary of NUEE, yesterday in Abuja. They expressed dismay over what they called acts of molestation, intimidation and gross recklessness of some operatives of the EFCC meted to their members at the AEDC headquarters in Abuja on June 6. They stated that the operatives got to the gate and forced their way into the premises while they were not sure of the office they were going to carry out their operation. The released reads in part: “Their aim of operation was not disclosed and without proper identification nor warrant of arrest on any staff of the company. “The operatives assaulted members of staff and exhibited gross acts of highhandedness and forcefully bundled 12 of our members who attempted to ask what the matter was. They took them away to their custody. “They broke into AEDC offices, teargassed and battered so many of our members and broke office doors brazenly. A particular staff member, a lawyer, was beaten up until he became unconscious for asking them for identification. Suddenly, EFCC discovered they were in the wrong place, wrong location and wrong address. The rightful address of the operation supposed to be the Federal Ministry of Power where the nomenclature of DFA exists.’’ 