A former Governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Tanko Al-Makura, has said the bigwigs in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will leave no stone unturned to ensure the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Ahmd Tinubu, wins the presidential election in 2023. Al-Makura spoke yesterday in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, during the harmonisation of over 40 Tinubu support groups in the state. He said the emergence of Tinubu, the National Leader of the APC and former Governor of Lagos State as the APC candidate was the best thing that had happened to the party. Al-Makura, who was a contender for the APC national chairmanship, said Tinubu’s administration would bring about total transformation and robust deployment of ideas that would ensure excellence in every facet of the Nigerian economy. He said, “We are not going to leave any stone unturned as far as the campaign is concerned. We are going to work and submit ourselves to robust cooperation and collaboration with the state government and other institutions within the state. “And Nasarawa State being a state that is in the main stream of our party, the governor and the government will drive the process of this campaign to success like it drove all other campaigns for the success of APC in Nasarawa State. “Asiwaju is people’s president. The choice we have made for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed is the right choice for APC, Nigeria, for Africa. He is the soldier of democracy. “If you look at the pedigree of Asiwaju way back in the early 90s, I call him a soldier of democracy. He is someone who stood for democracy even at the most risky period. That alone qualifies him to lead a struggle to entrench democracy not only in Nigeria but in Africa.” Tinubu will address Nigeria’s challenges – Group A group, Abokun Al’ummah (Friends of the Society for Good Governance), has said the yet-to-be unveiled manifesto of the presidential candidate of the APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, will address the challenges bedevilling the country. Leader of the group, Labib Abdullahi Mahmood, told newsmen on Tuesday in Abuja that Tinubu had exhibited political sagacity in the last three decades in breeding leaders from different parts of the country which stood him out among all the presidential candidates contesting the 2023 poll. Mahmood said, “His manifesto is going to be an all-inclusive manifesto, and I am sure it is going to cater for all the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerians. Nigerians are looking for solutions and the country needs to grow. You can find that in the Jagaban.” He also said Tinubu would set the stage for the younger generation of politicians to take over power in the future. He said, “We need to have solid structures first before we can bring in people like us to lead this country. You know, we want to be part of the system. But are we ready for it? So we need somebody that has done it somewhere so that once he creates that platform, he institutionalises it, then we can take over. So I want to believe Nigeria is not ready for a young president. “Jagaban has created his own brand despite the short comings of this regime. He is a leader per excellence, a patriot without boundaries with untiring capacity to nurse, nurture, mentor and develop ordinary people to become leaders of repute.”  By Saawua Terzungwe (Abuja) & Umar Muhammed (Lafia)