One of the aspirants screened ahead of the Presidential Primary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has given tbe reason he will support emergence of a consensus candidate. Chief John Oyegun, who headed the consensus committee, disclosed this on Friday, adding that the aspirant said he would support consensus as long as it is in his favour. Oyegun, however, did not disclose the identify of the aspirant. He said other aspirants said they would accept whatever the party decides as regards concensus. The former APC national chairman stated that some of the aspirants who purchased the N100 million expression of interest and nomination forms did not make it to the screening. He said of the 23 aspirants, 13 were cleared but he did not make public their names. Oyegun said, “I thank you for the assignment that you gave us was enormous and how short time has been. I know the environment on which you took over. And so, we are quite happy to do as much as we could to make the work of the party lighter. “We had the privilege of being inaugurated by you; precisely on the 30 of May and we immediately started work that very day after a brief meeting. I will just summarize the main thing. “There is this cleavage that is gradually becoming the centre stage in a national discourse – between the North and the South and the presidency. And we just want to advise strongly that the party should please think of it in making its decision, address it and let it influence their thoughts because it has its own implications. “Outside that, just on behalf of the wonderful colleagues you gave me to work with. I want to thank you very much. It was a sensitive assignment, a challenging assignment but very interesting assignment on which all of us have profited immensely from which the party will also profit. “Against every aspirant, the issue of consensus and it is pleasant surprise that 98 to 99% agreed that the party is supreme. And that whatever the party finally decides with proper consultation, they will likely to accept. We had only one exception who said yes, he will accept consensus so long as it is build on him. “So, I think it is a point that needs to be made and emphasize. So, that gives you a lot of leeway in the days and hours ahead to trim down even more drastically. But, finally we think you should not be afraid for a contested primary if anybody insist on the contest.”