Prof. Peter Umeadi, a former Chief Justice of Anambra, on Wednesday, emerged as the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in the 2023 polls. Umeadi, who was unopposed, became APGA’s presidential candidate at the party’s convention in Abuja which was attended by its leaders and members from the country’s six geo-political zones. The party delegates affirmed his candidacy by a voice vote. APGA National Chairman, Dr Victor Oye, who expressed optimism that Umeadi would be sworn in as President in 2023, said that the party would also produce more than 30 senators. Oye said that APGA would take Nigeria by storm, adding that Umeadi having served in the judiciary for 35 years was well equipped and was the candidate to beat in the presidential election. “APGA is a realistic party; we do not build castles in the air. The emergence of Umeadi shows that APGA is united and would spring surprises by being elected president by Nigerians in 2023. “We are here to do the needful, APGA does not believe in imposition, we gave everybody a level playing field to come and purchase form. “At the end of the whole process our brother former Chief Judge of Anambra, a life-changer, a man of irrepressible character, a man who has shown capacity in many ways intellectually and otherwise is today being presented to all of us for affirmation as our candidate, ” he said. Oye reiterated that there was no crisis in AGPA, pointing out that no faction existed because his leadership was the one INEC recognised. In his acceptance speech, Umeadi said he was stepping out with the triple banner of rule of law, separation of power and due process if elected. He also promised to make Nigeria a great country which every Nigerian would be proud of. “Our triple banner should form the structure for a new Nigeria which an APGA government at the centre under my watch would bring about. “Uppermost in my mind is how to reconcile Nigerians across the length and breadth of our dear country. “In a new political culture, I undertake to galvanise the old, young, rich, poor, literate or not, from different religious persuasions and from all six geopolitical zones, to deliver a new Nigeria where justice would reign for all citizens equally, irrespective of tribe or status. “Our next task as a political party is to secure votes at the polls from the majority of Nigerians. We would work hard to secure as many legislative seats as possible across the country. Nigerians should respect the ballots,“ he said. (NAN)