The Oyo State House of Assembly yesterday threatened impeachment process against the defected deputy governor of the state, Engr. Rauf Olaniyan. The deputy governor was accused of gross misconduct, abuse of office, financial recklessness, abandonment of office and official duties, insubordination and other offences. Disquiet in Lagos APC as Elegushi, Obanikoro battle for Eti-Osa constituency ticket 2023: Presidential candidates cautioned against hate speech Daily Trust reports that the deputy governor had penultimate Sunday defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which is the ruling party in the state to the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). However, 24 of the 32 members of the house wrote and signed a petition against him which was read during plenary yesterday. The petition was signed by PDP lawmakers in the state. They are Fadeyi Muhammed (Ona Ara), Onaolapo Sanjo (Ogbomosho South), Babalola Olasunkanmi (Egbeda), Adebisi Yussuf (Ibadan Southwest 1), Okedoyin Julius (Saki West) and Adebayo Babajide (Ibadan North 2),  Kehinde Olatunde (Akinyele 2), Olajide Akintunde (Lagelu), Mustapha Akeem (Kajola), Popoola Ademola (Ibadan South East 2), Owolabi Olusola (Ibadan North East 2). Others are Olagoke Olamide (Ibadan North East 1), Olayanji Kazeem (Irepo/Olorunsogo), Ojedokun Peter (Ibarapa North/Centre), Gbadamosi Saminu (Saki East/Atisbo), Mabaje Adekunle (Iddo), Oluwafowokanmi Oluwafemi (Ibadan Southwest 2), Akeem Adedibu (Iwajowa), Fatokun Ayo (Akinyele 1), Rasak Ademola (Ibadan South East 1), Obadara Akeem (Ibadan North West), Oyekunle Fola (Ibadan North 1), Adetunji Francis (Oluyole). Reacting to the petition after it was read by the Clerk of the House, Yetunde Awe, the Speaker of the House, Adebo Ogundoyin, said the petition met the two-thirds requirement to initiate the process. He added that the house would give the deputy governor a seven-day grace period to respond to the allegations, adding that failure to do so would lead to the commencement of the impeachment process. 