Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, a chieftain at the AllProgressives Party and a presidential aspirant in the 2023 election under the platform of the party has revealed why he deserves the party’s flagbearer. The former governor of Lagos State, while presenting his speech to the delegates of the party at the presidential primary, which holds at Eagles Square, Abuja, noted among his achievements how he transformed Lagos. APC primary: It’ll be trouble if we don’t produce candidate as strong as Atiku — Gov Sule APC Primary: We have no power to reduce aspirants – Gov. Sule “I have the experience. I led the transformation of Lagos from a dangerous, unwelcoming place in 1999 to a clean, safe, and vibrant place and the 5th largest economy in all of Africa. I am a serious man with a serious purpose and I will use all that I know and all of my abilities to the benefit of the people. I am a unifying leader. I have constructed a formidable political structure, one that has delivered electoral victory after electoral victory. I do not now put myself forward because I think this nomination is my due. I step forward because I believe I can lead our party towards its brightest future. I have the expertise. My record of corporate leadership, my financial expertise and my experience as an executive governor make me unique among the aspirants; giving me the requisite skills to accelerate progressive reforms that will change the face of the national economy,” the former governor said. He further urged the delegates to choose a candidate that would be acceptable nationwide. Moreso, Tinubu stated that the flagbearer of the party must be a person to unite the country. “As President Buhari has said, our party’s objective must be to triumph in next year’s election at all levels. The candidate you select must deliver victory in the national elections and have the personal gravity and national recognition to pull us to victory in state and local elections as well. He must instil a sense of victory and confidence. “Moreover, the candidate must unite Nigerians of all walks of life, from all parts of the country. He must have the experience, leadership, knowledge, and extensive personal contacts to steer a diverse, complicated Nigeria through this challenging period in a dynamic world. “The other candidates are all good men. But I sincerely believe I am the person this moment calls for.”                      