The Director General of PDP New Generation, Audu Mahmood, says the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has simplified the task of producing Atiku Abubakar as the next president of Nigeria. Mahmood in a statement in Abuja said the choice of Tinubu has finally nailed the coffin against further extension of the APC administration. He said with the prevailing situation Nigerians will no longer have any reason to look the way of the ruling party, “that has killed dreams and prospects”. The DG said, “They have made our work easy for us in the PDP New Generation and PDP as a whole, in the promotion of our candidate. Atiku Abubakar is a renowned transformational leader and a unifying force, needed at this dying moment of our nation-state. “His web of connection transcends religion and ethnicity. He remains a democrat who has prepared all his life to lead a country like Nigeria. This is the time to take back power at the center and a contender like Bola Tinubu from the APC is a work-over for the PDP.” He said it is no longer news that Nigerians have decided to send APC packing and it is finally their farewell, with the emergence of Tinubu, asking whether APC wants to campaign with the “number of people killed under their watch by bandits/terrorists? Or the embarrassing exchange rates of Naira to other currencies?” According to Mahmood, in every index, Nigeria doesn’t only occupy slots reserved for failed nations but the very worst among the failed nations. “The Naira is now close to being worthless. Electricity supply is almost non-existent. The manufacturing base of the economy is steadily being battered. Fuel scarcity is now a norm. Universities have remained closed owing to a lengthy lecturers’ strike. And then, there is insecurity everywhere and the lives of Nigerians is seen as worthless! “Nigerians should therefore ensure that they get their PVCs and vote in favour of the Unifier, Atiku Abubakar who will offer a credible and visionary leadership,” he said.