The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, has charged the party’s National Campaign Council for the Osun State governorship election to work hard to win the poll. Adamu gave the charge yesterday while inaugurating the 86-member campaign council at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. He said, “We are going there to win by the grace of God. That plan to win, the ability to execute the plan is with the leadership that this council is going to provide in the campaign efforts. “I urge you to leave no stone unturned. I urge you to go there and do whatever is doable within the laws of Nigeria and our electoral laws to win. My tolerance level and this national working committee level for failure is really, really zero. “Most of you have been statesmen in your own right (by the virtue of the) offices you held before today. But for this exercise, take off the big guns, take off the creepy suit wear and go down the trenches to bring that victory we want. “Nobody should come back to us crying, failure is not our own by the grace of God. Whatever it takes within the laws of the land, I said go for it, win the election.” Speaking with newsmen after the inauguration, Kano State governor and co-chairman of the council, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, said the committee would use ‘strategy bags’ to defeat ‘money bags’ in the opposition PDP. Ganduje said the campaign team would work day and night and campaign vigorously for the success of the party in the election slated for July 16, 2022. He said, “We are told that we are fighting an opposition with money bags. But we want to assure you that we are coming with strategy bags. We are seeking the cooperation of all stakeholders, especially our governors. “Our national chairman, we want to assure you that we will work day and night. We will be committed. Some of us have already started behind the scene. One important issue about the Osun election is reconciliation. “So, reconciliation is totally necessary so that we will believe in each other. We agreed that all stakeholders in Osun State will come together and constitute one single force in order to win this important election.” 