Hours before the Convention of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) scheduled to hold on Wednesday at the Eagle Square in Abuja, a female presidential aspirant, Cesnabmihilo Dorathy Nuhu-Aken’Ovia, has stepped down from the race. The aspirant who joined the 2023 presidential race has also thrown her weight behind, Prince Adewole Adebayo, asking her supporters to vote for him. Akeredolu confirms 22 deaths in Owo Catholic Church attack Drama as Sanwo-Olu drives into Eagle Square on Speed At a press conference, she said that she withdrew from the race when the party decided to zone the presidency to the South and being a loyal party member she had to step down. She added that her political structure has been collapsed to support the Adebayo campaign organisation. “The party comes first. I am a party woman, a loyal and obedient one at that. I go by what my party says. And it is my responsibility and every other member to ensure that the party triumph in the coming election. “I decided to support him and the party by giving and submitting my political structure to his organisation to have a good showing at the polls,” she said. Prince Adewole Adebayo, another aspirant within the party praised his colleague’s decision, adding that her exemplary action should be emulated. He said people like her should be encouraged to offer themselves for the service of the country. ” I have learned a lot from her and have seen that Nigeria is blessed with talents. I consider myself as a person who is after leadership and I was immediately self-indicting that how come I didn’t know her before now? “When I saw the demographic following Cesnabmihilo Dorathy Nuhu-Aken’Ovia, her mastery of issues, I thought to myself I have a strong contender. And she made me more serious, more detailed and to go down to the grassroots because while we were doing press conferences and so many other practical things, she was penetrating the communities. I appreciate this important gesture of hers. I salute her courage and it should be emulated”.