The all-new exclusive JAC J7 has hit the Nigerian roads courtesy of Elizade Auto land. The highly impressive sedan regarded as a show stopper was one of the outcomes of the recent collaboration between Volkswagen and JAC Autos. The unveiling in Lagos was witnessed by ace comedian Ali Baba and select top Nollywood artistes and corporate customers of the Elizade Autoland, including the representative of the Lagos State Government, Chief of Staff, Tayo Ayinde, and Managing Director/CEO of the Coleman Wires and Cables, George Onafowokan, who were astonished by the beauty and performance of the car. Chairman and founder of Elizade, Chief Michael Ade-Ojo, who said he was impressed with the remarkable performance of the JAC brand in Nigeria in less than ten years, noted that the introduction of the J7 indicated the general acceptability of the JAC brand in Nigeria. Managing Director of Elizade Autoland, Mr. Ademola Ade-Ojo, said the auto firm in the last nine years has been able to earn the confidence of Nigerian buyers about the brand. He noted that they were encouraged by the customers’ warm acceptance and continued improvement in the design and overall performance of the JAC models in the passenger, commercial and light duty trucks. He also stated that after the acquisition of 75 per cent of JAC by Volkswagen, “the merger and acquisition has helped to improve the design, quality, specification and overall experience of the passenger vehicles. The first set of car models birthed from this German- Asian infusion among others is the all-new exclusive JAC J7 (the sleek).” He also announced a N1m discount for the first 10 customers to buy the vehicle immediately after the launch. Head of Brand and Marketing Communication at the Elizade Autoland, Mr Franklyn Okotie, gave the synopsis of the car’s features. He said the car is equipped with unique features including 1.5 litre engine with incredible fuel economy combined with its fast-running and sleekness. The J7 presents a sporty, waterfall intake grille as its unique front design and well detailed LED headlamps forming a stunning front appearance. The vehicle comes with  150,000km or five-year warranty as well as after-sale support service, made easy with the availbility of workshop/genuine spare parts in Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and Port Harcourt as well as other parts of the country made possible through Elizade Autoland’s Know Your User strategy. 