Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited (MESL), operator of the 760 megawatts (MW) Kainji hydropower plant and the 578MW Jebba hydro, has begun an $89 million (about N37.2 billion) project to add two new turbines of 220MW capacity to the Kainji plant. Speaking at the ground-breaking ceremony for the units 1G3 and 1G4 turbines project at the Kainji plant in Niger State, Chairman of MESL Board, Col. Sani Bello (rtd), said with the addition, Kainji capacity will rise to 980MW. Col. Bello decried the piling invoices for energy generated in the Nigerian electricity market, harping on timely payment of invoices to help investors get returns on investments. “We plead with the government to liberalise sourcing of forex as sourcing forex is still a challenge,” he added while calling for incentives like waivers and removing stiff regulations for investors. The Minister of Power, Engr Abubakar Aliyu, said access to electricity will impact industrial development, noting that 5,000MW of electricity is not enough for over 200m people in Nigeria. He said, “This clearly shows that we are not meeting the power needs of our people,” as he lauded MESL for the expansion. He said by 2050, the Nigerian population will hit 400m requiring adequate electricity plan and that “the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) must brace up for the energy demand gap.” Also speaking, Managing Director of MESL, Engr Lamu Audu, said: “As at May 2021, we have recovered 542MW from Kainji and Jebba, bringing our capacity to 1,002MW from the 462MW we met when we took over in 2013. On the new project by Power China, Audu said: “The installation of Unit 1G3 and Unit 1G4 will add 220MW to the plant and is expected to be completed in 44 months at the cost of over $89 million, bringing our combined total investment to over $240 million to date.” The MESL boss also said eight turbines existed before these two additional units and with the 10 turbines, Kainji will have 980MW capacity bringing the two plans capacity to 1,528MW. The Executive Director, Mainstream Foundation, Siraj Abdullahi, said the minister has demonstrated commitment to addressing challenges in the power sector as he promised a more expansion drive for the power plants. Deputy MD, Power China, Jiu Jian, said the project will be delivered within the time frame, noting that the expansion of Kainji matches global commitment to tackling climate change through more renewable energy projects. 