The Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has revealed how he strongly rooted for his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, to emerge the running mate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Wike had lost the presidential ticket at the party’s primary and also lost the party’s vice presidential candidate to the Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa. Ortom, who spoke with Arise TV on Wednesday, said the Rivers State governor needed a vacation abroad due to the “trauma” he went through after losing the presidential ticket and the vice president slot. He said, “My friend, Governor Wike deserves vacation after the trauma that he went through. Some of us believe that he has the capacity and the charisma to lead this country from bottom to top. Since this current administration came, we have been taken from top to bottom. “But unfortunately, the PDP did not give him the opportunity. Some of us rooted for him. I was amongst the 17-member committee that was set up by the candidate (Atiku) himself and the party, and some of us said that for the vice presidency, we needed Wike to be the vice president so that he can bridge the gap. “We said it in our meeting that it doesn’t matter whether he supported the presidential candidate or not, that all we were looking at is the unity of this country and how we can make this work. But unfortunately, it was said that it is Governor Okowa, who is also a PDP member. That is the wisdom of the presidential candidate.” The Benue State governor added that he was confused and needed “God’s direction” before he would support Atiku. He said, “I am now really confused because I’ve said that Wike would have been the best vice presidential candidate after losing the presidency. He was the second person (first runner up) to Atiku, and has the charisma. “It does not matter; we all have our weak points. Wike can be something-something, but when it comes to mobilization, impact, value addition and making sure that the party works, Wike is an instrument. “Wike is somebody who stood for the party and made sure the party works. Some of us believed in him, but unfortunately, it was somebody else. “I am praying. I have gone into hibernation. I am fasting and praying. So in the end, if God directs me that I should support Atiku, why should I not do it? After all, he’s my party member. But I am waiting for him to do more. I expect him to reach out to Wike, who came second in the presidential primary.”