 The unions in the Office of the Accountant General of the Federal (OAGF) have demanded that an acting and substantive accountant general be appointed within the rank of the most senior director, accounts, in the agency. The unions, in a joint letter to the Minister of Finance, Zainab Ahmed, said that will be in tandem with an earlier directive by the federal government mandating the most senior director in the agency to act as the CEO pending the appointment of a substantive CEO. Recall that government had appointed Mr Anamekwe Nwabuoku as the acting Accountant General of the Federation on May 20, 2022, following the suspension of Ahmed Idris who has corruption allegations dangling on his head. Before his appointment, he was a director at the OAGF. However, he is close to retiring. Thus, the unions are requesting the next Accountant General of the Federal be appointed from amongst the staff, preferably the most senior director at the Treasury House. They made the demand in a letter of appreciation to the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, signed by the various union chairmen in the OAGF. Those who signed include: Com. Onoja Edwin, chairman, ASCS; Com. Japhet Yakubu, chairman, NCSU; Com. Oduola, D.O., chairman (AUPCTRE); and Com. Effiong E.E. The letter read in part: “We know you for your integrity and prudency. It is on this note that we, the union of this office, wishes to extend our gratitude for your quick intervention in appointing the acting AGF. This is necessary to keep the services of the nation going,” it said. “The union is praying that in the next few months, when the acting AGF will be exiting from service, the substantive AGF should be appointed or selected based on the Federal Establishment circular 2011 – 2020. With this, the image and confidence of the treasury will be maintained. “The most Senior Director (Accounts) in the pool, according to the circular attached should be considered. Based on your integrity and transparency. The union knows that the needful will be done,” the unions demanded.”