The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has assured the party’s presidential candidate for the 2023 poll, Bola Tinubu, that they are now his soldiers. Tinubu had polled 1,271 votes to emerge the APC candidate at a special convention of the party held at Eagle Square, Abuja. He defeated 13 other contenders to clinch the party’s presidential ticket The NWC members led to Tinubu’s residence in Abuja on Thursday by the APC National Chairman, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, assured the Lagos born politician that the party leadership would work assiduously to deliver him as president. “We are here visiting you to join you in thanking God for giving you to us and to all Nigerians, by making you the presidential flag bearer of our party for the 2023 election. “You have come a long way; you have seen it all. I can tell you that we have a commitment beyond description, a commitment to deliver you as president. Our party has spoken loud and clear, and delivering the will of the people, our delegates have given you the mandate to lead. “We are all now your soldiers. We will follow you to the nooks and crannies of this country. We will not rest on your oars until we have delivered you as president,” Adamu said. Responding, Tinubu thanked members of the NWC, saying he was honoured by their visit. He said: “I am honoured by this visit. We are all members of the same party, and as such, belong to the same progressive family. I appreciate your visit, I truly feel as if I am with family members. “I want to thank every one of you individually and collectively. You have formed a very dynamic team in a short period of time. You have sent jitters to other parties that our party remains united and you must continue to live up to expectations. “Today, as I have done throughout my campaign, I assure you that I am ready to reciprocate and vindicate our efforts in making the ultimate sacrifice: relentless public service to our beloved nation. “We have begun a new story of greatness, prosperity in the history of our nation. You helped me to complete the introduction, we must now work together to etch the substance of the book itself. Our book will not be complete until you have delivered me as president.”