Senator Ibrahim Shekarau has emerged as the New Nigeria Peoples Party’s (NNPP) candidate for Kano Central Senatorial District. He won the ticket unopposed at a primary in Gezawa, headquarters of Gezawa LGA. Shekarau, a former Governor of Kano State, defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to NNPP after failing to secure the party’s ticket for another term in the senate. A frontline kwankwasiyya member, Abba Kabir Yusuf, popularly known as ‘Abba gida-gida’ also emerged as the NNPP governorship candidate in Kano. Other senatorial candidates who emerged at the primaries in Kano are the immediate past Executive Secretary, TETFUND, Abdullahi Bappa Bichi and a former Special Adviser to President Buhari on National Assembly, Abdurrahman Kawu Sumaila. Also, 732 delegates affirmed Senator Suleiman Othman Hunkuyi as NNPP’s gubernatorial candidate in Kaduna State through voice vote yesterday. Daily Trust reports that Hunkuyi moved to the NNPP in March as one of its founding fathers. In his acceptance speech, Hunkuyi chided the ruling APC in Kaduna for failing to protect the lives and property of citizens. He assured that when voted into power, the NNPP would focus on the security of lives and restoration of human dignity, as well as the declaration of state of emergency on education and other sectors. In Gombe State, a former member of the House of Representatives, Khamisu Ahmed Mailantarki, emerged as NNPP’s governorship candidate. Mailantarki’s candidacy was affirmed by the party’s delegates through voice vote during primary held yesterday in Gombe. He will slug it out with Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of APC and PDP’s Muhammad Jibril Barde. 35-year-old clinches gov’ship ticket in Ogun A 35-year-old businessman, Olujobi Ezekiel Fayoyin, clinched NNPP’s governorship ticket in Ogun State after his candidacy was ratified by the party’s delegates through voice vote at a primary in Abeokuta, the state capital. The exercise was conducted by the NNPP electoral committee led by Hon Abdullahi Dogonnama and monitored by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The state’s Chairman of NNPP, Oginni Olaposi, urged Governor Dapo Abiodun to be preparing his handover notes ahead of the next election. Responding, Fayoyin asked the youths to support him towards winning the main election.  From Lami Sadiq (Kaduna), Haruna G. Yaya (Gombe) & Peter Moses (Abeokuta) 