The Head, Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, UCH, Ibadan, Dr Tololupe Bella-Awusah, says that the upstair brain, that controls action and behaviour is not yet matured or still developing in children. Bella-Awusah made the observation in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of a scientific conference organised by the Association of Resident Doctors (ARD), Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital Yaba, on Tuesday in Lagos. She noted that the human brain was made up of the upstair and downstair brain; which their functions generally were to keep human being alive and safe. Bella-Awusah stated that the downstair brain was mainly responsible for breathing and emotional feelings, while the upstair brain controls behaviour, actions and thinking in human being. According to her, the downstair brain is usually developed before birth, while the upstair brain develops and matures when an individual reaches 25 years of age. The psychiatrist regretted that parents and caregivers inflict different kinds of corporal punishment such as spanking, flogging or slapping on children, in a bid to discipline and correct their bad behaviours and actions. “The upstair brain that controls actions develops/matures in a human being at the age of 25; as a result, it is absent in children. “And until a child reaches that age, he/she can’t have the articulation and intellectual ability for a good or perfect behaviour. “This is why a child, after being beaten over a particular action, the same child goes back to repeat that act or even do the worst,” Bella-Awusha said. She stated that the development and maturity of the upstair brain could only be attained when a child grows to the age of 25. According to her, the body system development cannot be rushed or fast-forwarded, saying that it will develop and starts to function well at its maturity stage. Bella-Awusah, therefore, advised parents and caregivers to give the necessary support, care and love to their children, to help grow and reach the age at which the upstair would be developed for them to know the rights and wrongs. The psychiatrist, however, admitted that children should not be allowed to do anything they like, advising that other disciplinary measures rather than corporal punishment should be applied. 