A new faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, yesterday, described the declaration of Hon. Ladi Adebutu as the governorship candidate of the party in the state by the Senator Iyorchia Ayu – led National Working Committee (NWC) as “illegal and an affront” to the judiciary. The faction led by Samson Bamgbose said the Sikirulai Ogundele – led executive which conducted the governorship primary election that produced Adebutu was allegedly not known to the law and therefore acted ultra vires. Ayu had on June 7, in Abuja, presented Certificate of Return to Adebutu, thereby, confirming him as the party’s candidate in the state. Adebutu won the governorship primary election of the PDP which was held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), Abeokuta, on May 25. On the same day, the Segun Showunmi-led faction held a parallel governorship primary election which produced him as the governorship candidate. While Showunmi is laying claim to the party’s ticket, another aspirant, Jimi Lawal, has written to the NWC of the party, calling for the cancellation of the primary election over alleged manipulation of the delegates’ list. However, the Bamgbose – led exco yesterday claimed to be the authentic leadership of the party in the state. The secretary of the faction, Raphael Olaosebukan, while addressing journalists in Abeokuta, claimed to have conducted the authentic governorship primary in which Olusegun Awoyemi, emerged as the candidate. “We duly notified the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of the  primary, but for reasons best known to the agency, it failed to send officials to monitor the election. “I wish to use this occasion to inform the general public that the authentic  executive  committee of the Ogun chapter of the PDP, is the Kayode Bamgbose -led committee, with Mr Raphael Olaosebukan  as the secretary,” he said. Justifying the authenticity of the Bamgbose – led exco, Olaosebikan stated that the committee emerged through the election conducted by the Engr. Bayo Dayo led-exco in May, 2020. “Please note that Justice Mohammed Idris of the Federal High Court in Lagos, in  February  2018, affirmed the Bayo Dayo-led Exco as the then authentic executives of the PDP in Ogun,” he said. 