Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Friday said he’s not an emperor by any chance, in what appeared to be a direct response to the presidential aspirant, Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s outburst in Abeokuta, the state capital. Tinubu on Thursday angrily told Abiodun how he made him Governor in 2019. He spoke at presidential lodge in Abeokuta, the state capital, while addressing the APC delegates ahead of the party’s primaries. Tinubu was in company of Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo – Olu, his Kano counterpart, Umar Ganduje and former Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima. Governor Abiodun had openly endorsed the candidature of Osinbajo, who hails from Ikenne in Ikenne Local Government Area of the state. Tinubu was apparently dissatisfied with Abiodun’s endorsement of Osinbajo. “It has been over 25 years now that I have been serving them. This one sitting behind me, Dapo, can he say he can be the Governor without me? We were together at the MKO Abiola stadium, he was intimated, they didn’t want to give the party’s flag, I was the one that handed the flag to him. He knows that he cannot be the governor without the help of God and my support. “If he wants to meet God at the right place, he must know that without God and me, he would not have become Governor,” he said. Abiodun did not give any response to Tinubu’s outburst at the event as he only assured that the party delegates would do the “right thing” at the convention. However, less than twenty four hours after the drama, Abiodun on his social media platforms, declared that he was not an emperor by any chance. He added that the position he occupies isn’t his family inheritance. Abiodun didn’t mention Tinubu’s name in his post, but his comments were seen as a subtle reply to the former governor’s remarks. “I am not an emperor by any chance and this is not my family inheritance. “I am holding this position in trust for all the people of this state and I have vowed to be fair, just and equitable and this is the solemn agreement I made between the Almighty God and myself,” he said.