The federal government has inaugurated the board of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), seven years after, with Mr Bukar Bulama Buni and 13 others as directors. The last TCN board led by Ibrahim Dahiru Waziri, was dissolved in July 2015 shortly after President Muhammadu Buhari assumed office. A new board was named in January 2021 to be chaired by Muhammad Ahmad but was not inaugurated. However, two of the members, Imamudeen Talba and Ali Haruna, are among members of the new board inaugurated by the Minister of Power, Engr. Abubakar D. Aliyu, in Abuja on Thursday. They will be serving till next year. The new board members include Engr. Mohammed Wasaram, Nsima Ekere, Abdulkarim Disu, Engr. Gazali Tukur, Osagie Ediale, Mrs Apolonia Okigbo and Clement Omeizabaiye. Others are Aisha Omar (finance ministry), Emmanuel Nosike (power ministry), Director General, Bureau of Public Enterprises, Alex Okoh and the Managing Director of TCN, Engr. Sule Abdulaziz. The Minister tasked the board on commitment as he decried the poor power supply so far. He said: “The electricity that is being delivered is not at the level to support our economy. We have been hovering around 5000 megawatts, either we go down a bit or we go up. “The power sector is on a fast track to deliver service to Nigerians. I, therefore, expect you not to institute yourself into a restraining agenda to the progress of this company. “Your tenure as directors will be measured by stakeholders on the impact and the key performance indicators that you have significantly improved over the next one year,” said Aliyu. The chairman, Senate Committee on Power, Gabriel Suswam said: “My worry is that this board is being inaugurated at a time when many Nigerians receive less power supply of about two hours supply a day. “I want to appeal that you hit the ground running on a lot that has been done by the minister and the MD.” The permanent secretary, Nebeolisa Anako, represented by a director, Tayo Adewumi, said: “It is my pleasure to welcome you to this important event as an additional milestone to the power sector and the nation at large.” 