 Nigeria will begin production of uniforms for its military and paramilitary personnel from January, 2023, the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) bas revealed. ICRC said the production project was a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) between the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON) and Sur Corporate Wear to create the Sur Corporate Wear Nigeria Ltd. The DICON/Sur collaboration which will span a concession period of 20 years will be responsible for producing uniforms for the army, navy, air force, police, civil defence and other military and paramilitary organisations, ICRC explained in a statement. The commission’s acting Director General, Michael Ohiani, had charged all stakeholders in the project to resolve all issues that were hindering the completion of the factory and report back to the commission in one week. At the rescheduled meeting chaired by Dr Jobson Ewalefoh, Director of the Contract Compliance Department (CCD) in the ICRC, he urged all stakeholders to ensure that the project was completed within the stipulated timeframe. The director said that the project was very important to the nation as it would curb capital flight, create over 920 jobs and would also be a thing of pride for the nation to produce its own uniforms. He added that as it progressed, the DICON/Sur venture was expected to begin to source all its raw materials from within Nigeria. He said, “The fact that we produce our military and paramilitary uniforms locally is a pride to all of us. It is a pride that we all must uphold. “Sudan is producing their own military kits, and I know DICON can do it if they have the right support.” He assured all stakeholders that the ICRC, as part of its regulatory functions, would liaise with all the relevant government agencies to fast-track the ongoing process of securing approval for off takers when production began in January. He hinted that going forward the ICRC, through its Contract Compliance Department (CCD), would make the DICON/Sur project a priority and as such monitor its progress until it was completed. He pledged that the ICRC would continue to intervene to make PPP projects operate smoothly. Speaking at an interactive meeting, the Managing Director of Sur Corporate Wear Nig Ltd, Burhan Can Karabulut, commended the management of ICRC for intervening and ensuring that the project was hitch-free. He extended the commendation of the investors, adding that following the intervention of the ICRC and the meeting of stakeholders that ensued, the investor had agreed to release funds for the completion of the project. He further said the company had so far taken the project to 68 per cent completion, adding that the remaining funds for the project would be released soon so as to meet the completion goal. He added that, “If the work resumes in July, it is assumed that we can start commissioning as of January, but this January, the commissioning will not be 100 per cent production.”