The Edo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, has warned residents of the state against spreading rumours through social media with a view to instil fear, tension and create an impression of instability in the state. Yaro gave the warning on Saturday in Benin while reacting to a video of some people set ablaze in Benin which is being circulated on social media. Two first-class chiefs arrested, detained over communal clash in Kogi Nigerians speak on growing trend of older women dating younger men Recall that social media was agog on Saturday due to a viral video in which some people and their vehicle were allegedly set ablaze by a mob in Benin. He warned that anybody caught or traced to the circulation of the fake video with the intention to cause tension and crisis in the state would be prosecuted. “The command wishes to state that the incident in the video happened in 2020, along Ekehuan Road, when unknown youths accosted a vehicle with all-male occupants, conducted search only by themselves and recovered some arms and ammunition and thereafter set the vehicle, suspects, arms and ammunition ablaze,” Yaro said. He appealed to the people of the state to remain law-abiding and refuse to join criminal elements in recycling the viral video that is targeted at instilling fear, panic and tension in the minds of the people to believe that there is security instability or breakdown in the state. “To this end, anyone caught or traced to the viral video will be arrested and prosecuted in court to serve as a deterrent to others,” he said. Yaro urged the citizens not to panic but go about their normal business as there is no cause for alarm, assuring that the state under his watch is safe and will remain safe. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up in the state, following Saturday’s alleged fighting between the Hausas and the Ibos around the new market area of Benin. Our reporter observed security presence at strategic locations in Benin apparently to forestall any possible breakdown of law.