What would you say about Atiku’s emergence as PDP’s presidential candidate? No one needs to be told that the ruling party, All Progressive Congress (APC), has failed Nigerians woefully. Th e emergence of Atiku Abubakar as PDP’s presidential candidate has shown that Nigerians are now ready for a better change, a better life and a peaceful nation to live in. It is a vivid indication that the time has come for Nigeria to move forward. Atiku Abubakar needs not much introduction; his capabilities and capacity to eff ectively conduct the aff airs of the nation are known to all, and we are just waiting for 2023 to swear-in Atiku as a duly-elected president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Don’t you think the crisis in PDP at the state level will aff ect his chances of winning the election? Crisis in parties is a sign that the party is popular and has the majority at all levels. Th e emergence of Atiku as a fl ag bearer of PDP will surely put an end to this crisis. Moreover, the election is months ahead and I am sure our presidential candidate and the party leadership will ensure that every issue is resolved in good time without much ado. It is common in a political party that has the potential to win elections to have such issues; in a political setting such issues are viewed as a plus and not a minus. Similarly, in some instances the crises were not really genuine but intentionally created to scuttle a party’s chances due to some state’s issues. Th e party is aware of such places and already it is making moves to settle all diff erences ahead of the general elections. Th ere has been a call on Atiku to make peace with Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso. What is your take on that? To us in PDP, the call is just a mischief move by some unpatriotic set of people. To put things straight, PDP doesn’t need Kwankwaso and our presidential candidate doesn’t need him as well. Don’t forget Kwankwaso is not our party member anymore, so why should we need him? Kwankwaso is not a threat to PDP at all levels and therefore he is of no importance to us. We don’t need him and we will never need him to win election in 2023. Do you think Atiku has the qualities to emerge victorious in 2023? Of course, he has. If you make analysis of the current issues at hand you will fi nd out that in all his attempts over the years, Atiku enjoyed a massive support. You will believe that his qualities are not hidden and his achievements as a politician and as a businessman are visible to all. To us in PDP, 2023 will just be a walkover. Th e people of Nigeria have now realized that the only answer to the Nigerian problem lies with Atiku Abubakar and from what we have so far gathered, many people from other parties will vote for Atiku in 2023. 