The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has resolved to synergise with the Niger State government and other stakeholders in the state to resolve legacy debts owed the company. According to the AEDC, the only way the government and stakeholders can boost their work is by paying for bills to guarantee stability in power supply. On his part, Niger State governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, promised that the government would continue to implement strategies to ensure that the state is secured, adding that the state’s legacies debt accumulated over a long period of time. Bello, who was represented by his Commissioner for Works, Mamman Musa, however, noted that the provision of prepaid meters to the state remained a critical issue that must be addressed. He equally noted that the state has also been investing in the provision of power infrastructure, which the utility company must find a way to appreciate and pay back. Bello noted that insecurity is very critical to fighting insecurity, stressing that there was a need to work with the power firm to ensure adequate electricity, which he believes would reduce insecurity. Managing Director of AEDC, Adeoye Fadeyibi, stated that while the company is doing everything possible to improve the quality of service, the lack of prompt payment of electricity remained a key bottleneck. He said growing insecurity across the states and vandalism of the company’s infrastructure have also hampered business operations. Fadeyibi who was represented by his Chief Business Officer, Sani Usman, said indebtedness to the company remained a critical challenge bedevilling the power supply as utility companies are now required to remit 100 per cent of the energy supplied to them. While disclosing that the company would launch a metering scheme in the state on Monday to ensure that consumers are being metered awaiting the next phase of the government’s mass metering scheme, Fadeyibi said: “We need your support to ensure that the legacy debt of the state is paid. We also need your support in the areas of sensitising the public on prompt payment of electricity bills and against vandalism of electricity infrastructure.” 