Salisu Iliyasu Gadu is a diplomat and journalist who has practiced the two professions for many years. In this interview, the former NLNG community relations manager who has secured the ticket of the PRP to contest Taraba South senatorial seat, speaks on why he is challenging Governor Darius Ishaku for the same seat. Excerpts:  As a veteran journalist, what informed your decision to delve into politics? I decided to delve into politics because I believe it is one of those areas in which one can be of service to his people and contribute his quota to their development. I happen to come from a part of the country that is not as developed as other parts. There are a lot of issues in the area where I am contesting that need to be brought to the fore so that they can be tackled. The only way to do this is through effective representation at the highest level in the country. So for somebody has my kind of experience and exposure, it is an opportunity to offer myself by accepting the call to come and provide effective representation to my people in the senate. It is rather curious that you have chosen to pursue this ambition on the platform of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) which is relatively unknown in Taraba State; why? The PRP is one of the oldest political parties in the country. In fact, it has a history that is bigger than the current political parties. It has played its role in the political development of this country right from the time of its founding father, Mallam Aminu Kano, who was known for fighting for the downtrodden. It is on this premise that I opted for the PRP, and also for the fact that the so-called major political parties in Taraba State have messed themselves up so badly. As you can see, they couldn’t even organise primaries which guidelines are provided by INEC. As it is now, they are even fighting among themselves as to who represent them at the governorship level. So if they find it difficult to organise a little matter as primaries, you can imagine how Taraba has been governed by these parties. The APC is right now in danger of not even participating in the 2023 general elections in Taraba State because of its habitual nature of crises. On the other hand, the PDP in Taraba is a military garrison; it is a political party which decisions are made by a general. If he decides that this is where the party should go, then it is done. It is not a democratic party, and for democrats like me, the PDP is the wrong choice. So I decided to opt for the PRP because of its philosophy of fighting for the masses. The party I have chosen is readily positioned to bring succour to the people of Taraba, especially the Southern Zone that has been grappling with many issues. How did you emerge as the PRP’s senatorial flag bearer for Taraba South? In the beginning, I made my interest known, and of course there were others who also showed interest. Along the line, however, those who also wanted to contest the same position gradually decided to withdraw, and at the end of the day I was left alone as the sole aspirant for the position. Governor Ishaku has secured the PDP’s ticket for Taraba South. How easy will it be for you to defeat him? First of all, I am contesting not on the basis of power of incumbency. I am going in there with all the hope that the people of the area have expressed their wish for a change and will entrust me with that change. The governor was a minister for two years, and now he is governor and by next year he would have served in that capacity for eight years. But he has not done anything; his scorecard is abysmal. Our zone is one area that needs development because it has been grappling with many issues. I have just returned from visiting the area and the people are disillusioned with the so-called major parties. PDP in particular happens to be ruling the state since the return of democracy in 1999 but it has failed woefully to deliver. The current governor who runs the state was imposed, so he doesn’t feel a sense of responsibility to the people. He does not go to meet the people at the grassroots. I personally went down there and interfaced with the people, and based on my engagement I was able to come to the conclusion that the people have since lost faith in the PDP and the APC. So it is no longer about parties but people who can deliver like me. What is your assessment of the legislative arm of government in Taraba and at the national level? We wouldn’t be talking about the abysmal performance of the governor if the legislature which is constitutionally supposed to checkmate him has done its job properly. He has not just pocketed them; he has intimidated them into silence. This is not proper because the constitution provides that this arm of government should function independently. But in Taraba, the assembly is simply an appendage of the executive. At the national level, we have a senator doing quite well, but at the same time the governor has made it quite difficult for him to perform because most of the projects he has to carry out are frustrated by the governor. 