The Seaports Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) has expressed concern over the decaying infrastructures at the nation’s seaport. The members of STOAN expressed their willingness to increase their investments at the nation’s ports, but urged the government to ensure speedy repairs of the quay wall at Tin-Can. The cost-of-living crisis has a global toll Dealing with period poverty in Nigeria Speaking during an interactive meeting with the Minister of State for Transportation, Senator Gbemisola Saraki, in Lagos on Wednesday, representative of STOAN, Mr. Ascanio Russo, decried the decaying infrastructures in and around the Tin Can Island Port, he urged the Federal Government to address it to make the port more competitive. “One of the major challenges that terminal operators face in Lagos at the moment and for sometime now is the condition of the port infrastructure, especially in Tin Can Island Port. “As you know, terminal operators have been operating in Lagos for over 15 years and have made significant investment in infrastructure, equipment, and human resources. And over time, we have really increased the level of productivity in the port. We have now reached the stage to make necessary investments to really bring back the original status of the decaying infrastructure especially in Tin Can Island Port. “From our side, we want to confirm that we are committed serious investors and we are ready to participate to invest directly in this infrastructure. We have been here for many years and we plan to be here for more years. “So, we are very happy that you have identified the challenges in the area of infrastructure and we want to confirm to you that we are ready to make the necessary investment. “We are ready to sit with you and your team to look at the legal and financial framework under which we can make this investment to continue to keep Lagos ports competitive,” Mr. Russo, who is also the Managing Director of PTML Terminal, said. He said while the new port being constructed in Lekki is “an opportunity for Lagos”, the ports in Apapa and Tin Can Island should not be neglected as they would still be very relevant. “Congestion is another challenge being faced by our members. Currently in the port, you may not see any because of the economic condition our country is facing at the moment and the general crisis all over the world and especially the lockdown in China, which is affecting the cargo coming to Lagos. “Congestion is going to affect the port again. We want to applaud the effort of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), which over the last few years introduced the ETO call up system, but we think there is more work to be done.” Russo advocated use of waterways and railways to evacuate cargo from the port to reduce congestion and excess pressure on the road. The minister, who has also visited the Tin-Can Island Port, called for the immediate and total reconstruction of the Quay walls of Tin-Can Island Port, insisting that the Quay walls decayed after years of neglect by the previous government. Saraki said: “We cannot build on a weak foundation; it is vital that we get these two very important ports modernized and ready to berth modern vessels. The state of the Ports shows decades of neglect but it’s better late than never.”