Coscharis Motors has unveiled its new, fifth-generation Luxury Range Rover and seven-seater SUV, for the Nigerian market. The new SUV is described as one of the most desirable models ever created by Land Rover. General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, said the unveiling ceremony was to show the vehicle’s uniqueness and significance as the fifth edition against its ready-made rivals in the Nigerian market. Babarinde added that the introduction of the technological innovation in the new Range Rover was to make the buyers feel the sophisticated and luxury displays in the new vehicle which are not available in others of its kind in the market. “This is the exclusive review of the new Range Rover so that the journalists will write about their experiences of the invention for Nigerians before it is taken to the market,” he said. Giving further details of the new vehicle, the Marketing Manager, Jaguar Land Rover, Cletus Aregbeshola, said the car had natural wood veneers and that its metal details were embraced with the highest level of precision. He stated that the Range Rover was defined by aesthetic grace, sophistication and refinement, adding that it was the most desirable Range Rover ever created. “It is a uniquely distinctive design, defined by its uninterrupted edge accentuating Range Rover’s strong, beautifully sculpted body. Flush elements, clean expansive surfaces, hidden-until-lit tail lamps. “The choice of sustainable and contemporary technical fabrics includes a new four-seat SV signature Suite with the provision of electrically deployable cup holders. For the first time on a Range Rover, 23” wheels enhance the vehicle’s consummate proportions and undoubted poise,” he said. Having seven seats, the marketing manager said, had not affected both the driver’s legroom and rear legroom. Jaguar Land Rover Service Manager, Masimba Joseph Gwetsuro, said the vehicle is provided with a new 530PS (390kW) 4.4-litre V8 that produces maximum torque of 750Nm. 