The spokesperson of the Tinubu Campaign Organisation, Mr Bayo Onanuga, has said that the former Lagos State governor has a pact with the party’s governors to nominate his running mate. Speaking on Trust TV’s Daily Politics on Wednesday, Onanuga said the issue of the running mate for the APC’s standard-bearer would be collectively resolved. He said when Tinubu met members of the Progressives Governors Forum (PGF), he promised them the slot of the vice president. Onanuga said: “When Tinubu met the progressives governors at their forum, he told them that ‘you are going to be the people who will pick my running mate’.” He said research has shown that the problem of Nigerians has nothing to do with religion but security, economic prosperity, and employment among others which make up over 70 per cent of their needs. He said the issue of religion in politics is of less concern to an average Nigerian. Onanuga stressed: “In 1993, MKO Abiola, a Muslim, picked [Baba Gana] Kingibe, a Muslim. There was some uproar at that time about a ‘Muslim-Muslim ticket’ but what happened in the election? The two candidates won the election clearly. “There was a [Bashir] Tofa who picked a Christian from the south who couldn’t beat the Muslim-Muslim ticket.” He said politicians are responsible for the division of Nigerians along religious lines. Asked about how the former Lagos governor will unite the other aspirants and face the opposition PDP, Onanuga said Tinubu has a large heart to forgive even those who betrayed him. He promised that the APC candidate will bring together chieftains to work toward the common goal of the party’s victory. “My principal is a person that is famously known to be very large-hearted, he can accommodate all shades of opinion. “Even when there is a sharp disagreement with other political actors, he finds a way of mending fences with them. “This is a game of politics, you are bound to disagree and it takes a man who has a very large heart who can accomodate all manners of views, all manners of behaviour to force a reconciliation and the matter ends there,” he said. He debunked the insinuation that Tinubu is too old to take on the challenges of Nigeria if he eventually wins the presidential election, saying that: “Atiku Abubakar, his major opponent, is older in age and Tinubu has also proven that contrary to what people think, he’s been able to move around the country to canvass for votes. “The problem he has is that I think he did a kneel surgery and it needs physiotherapy for him to regain the normal use of his leg. “Now that the primary has gone, I am sure he will go for a real physiotherapy.” After months of hide-and-seek over zoning, the presidential primary of the APC, which was conducted at the Eagle Square, produced the former Governor of Lagos State as the flag bearer. Tinubu, who polled 1,271 votes was followed by a former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, who got 316 votes; Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, 235 (third); Senate President Ahmad Lawan came fourth with 152 votes; Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello polled 47 votes to come fifth and the Cross River State Governor, Ben Ayade came sixth with 37 votes. With this development, Tinubu will slug it out at the presidential election with the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and candidates of the 16 other political parties in the country.