There is disquiet over the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Eti-Osa Federal Constituency in Lagos as the winner of the primary, Oyekanmi Elegushi has denied stepping down for the incumbent member representing the constituency, Mr. Ibrahim Obanikoro. Daily Trust reports that Elegushi emerged as the winner of the APC primary election for Eti-Osa federal constituency on May 27. 2023: Presidential candidates cautioned against hate speech PRP issues certificates of return to Abiola, 21 gov’ship candidates He polled 25 votes, while Ibrahim, the son of former Minister of State for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro, scored 23 votes. However, there have been widespread reports that Elegushi, the younger brother of Oba Saheed Elegushi, the traditional ruler of the Elegushi kingdom, stepped down for Obanikoro in deference to the party’s leadership. A report by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) had claimed that one Tobi Etti, a spokesman for Elegushi’s campaign organisation, issued a statement that his principal had accepted the decision of the party. But Elegushi has denied stepping down for Obanikoro saying he has no spokesman bearing Tobi Etti. Daily Trust however learnt that there is power play in the constituency as the lawmaker is under intense pressure to step down for Obanikoro’s son to do another term which the winner is yet to agree. Another source said the party’s leadership also took the decision following complaints of malpractices during the primary which was also marred by violence. But some supporters of Elegushi on Tuesday staged a protest to reject the party’s decision to replace his name with Obanikoro. “I am still in consultation with the party leadership and any decision I make will be made public by me and will be in the interest of the people of Eti-Osa Constituency and my party, the All Progressives Congress,” he said in a statement posted on his twitter page @Mr_Elegushi yesterday. When contacted, acting spokesman for the APC in the state, Karamo Yesiru said he had no information on the development. 