At least 120 people have been hospitalised after suspected toxic chemicals from expired industrial gas cylinders contaminated the air and spread to some neighbourhoods in Mundadu, a suburb of Kano. Eyewitnesses said the incident occurred on Friday evening when one Saifullahi gathered scrapped metals and crushes them for recycling. PDP reschedules congresses in Lagos, Imo, Benue, Katsina No agreement to make Tinubu president after Buhari -Yerima “The air is contaminated and it emanated from a scrap metal collection point. The problem began on Friday evening,” said an eyewitness. Ward head of the area, Magaji Abdullahi confirmed the incident to journalists. He said, “I was informed this evening that there was a problem at the place where Saifullahi Muhammad does his scrap metal collection business. “At least 30 people were taken to the hospital. Some were taken to Ja’en Primary Health Care while others were taken to Murtala Mohammed Specialist Hospital.” He said police from Ja’o’ji Division have been informed about the development. Confirming the incident, Kano State Fire Service Public Relations, PFS Saminu Abdullahi confirmed the incident, saying many people have already been conveyed to different hospitals for medical attention. “About 70 of them were taken to Jaen primary healthcare while 50 were taken to Murtala Muhammad specialist hospital for treatment,” he said. Abdullahi added that so far, there was no life lost in the incident. Daily Trust observed that most of the victims taken to Ja’en Primary Health Care facility for emergency response are women and children. Residents of the area told Daily Trust that the affected people showed signs of a sore throat followed by cough and vomiting. The Kano State Police command said they have dispatched officers to seal off the area and prevent other people from getting close to the scene as an investigation is going on. Police Public Relations Officer SP Abdullahi Kiyawa however said only 40 people were hospitalised so far. Recall that within a month, about three incidents reportedly involving explosives have claimed lives and properties in Kano. Meanwhile, Daily Trust learnt that the Kano state government has since late Friday evening summoned an emergency meeting to look into the issue.