Congratulatory messages have trailed the emergence of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), as the presidential flag bearer of the party in the 2023 general elections. The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar Wednesday congratulated his latest opponent in the forthcoming presidential election, Tinubu. Atiku hailed Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State, for clinching the presidential ticket to represent the APC in the forthcoming presidential election, stating that it was a ‘hard-fought contest.” The PDP presidential candidate, in his verified Twitter account, wrote, “Congratulations, @officialABAT, on your emergence as your party’s presidential candidate. It has been a hard-fought contest, but that you prevailed confirms your tenacity. -AA.” His congratulatory message shows a spirit of sportsmanship between the two presidential candidates as Tinubu also hailed the former VP when he emerged as the flag bearer of the PDP last month. In a congratulatory message through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, said he was elated that his political mentor had won the APC ticket. According to him, Tinubu’s victory was a well-deserved one, considering his years of working for the entrenchment and strengthening of democracy in Nigeria. Gbajabiamila said with his victory, APC stands a good chance of retaining power in 2023, stating that Nigerians across the board recognised his contributions to our nation’s development. The speaker described Tinubu as a dogged fighter who stood his ground to compete in the presidential primary in a democratic manner, saying the presidential candidate remains a hero. He also urged other aspirants at the just concluded primary to join hands and support the party’s presidential candidate. The speaker also commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the party for providing the enabling level ground for all aspirants to present themselves to the party’s delegates for the contest. The Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ahmed Idris Wase in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Muhammad Puma, described the process that led to the emergence of Tinubu as one of the most transparent in the country. One of the 23 presidential aspirants, Chief Ikeobasi Mokelu, in a congratulatory message, also assured Tinubu and the party of his sustained support. Governors of the ruling APC have also congratulated Tinubu on his victory at the party’s presidential primary election. In a congratulatory message he personally signed, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State said the emergence of Tinubu as the flag bearer of the APC in the 2023 general election would be a victory for the Nigeria project. He said the Jagaban had the capacity to provide the needed leadership that would consolidate on the country’s democratic gains. Ganduje equally charged all party members to remain united and focused as the party marched with Nigerians to victory in 2023. Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, who was one of the leading contestants, described the election as peaceful. The Director, Media and Publicity of the Yahaya Bello Presidential Campaign Organisation, Yemi Kolapo, said the Kogi governor had accepted the outcome of the primaries and would give the needed support to ensure the victory of the flag bearer and the ruling party in the 2023 presidential election. On his part, Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State said  Asiwaju is a well-grounded politician who can lead the party to victory in 2023. “I urge former aspirants and their supporters to join hands with the Great Jagaban to ensure the success of the party in the presidential election.” Niger State Governor, Abubakar Sani Bello, in a congratulatory message through his Chief Press Secretary, Mary Noel-Berje, said the choice of Tinubu had confirmed the confidence of the teeming party delegates across the country. The governor, who described the process of the APC presidential primaries as free, fair and credible, reaffirmed that the emergence of a Southern candidate as a standard flag bearer would again establish ground for justice, fairness, unity and political stability of the nation. Ondo State Governor and Chairman, Southern Governors’ Forum, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, in a statement signed by his Press secretary, Richard Olatunde, said it was time to galvanise support and calm frayed nerves. He said the reconciliation process must start immediately. Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, also described the emergence of Tinubu as the candidate of the APC as “truly deserving”, saying the politician ticked all the boxes. Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun said the emergence of Tinubu as the APC presidential flag bearer for the 2023 general election was a good omen for the party and the country as a whole. In the same vein, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, described his emergence as a victory for democracy. He thanked his colleague governors from Ekiti, Ogun, Lagos and Ondo States for their support toward the victory of Tinubu in the primary. He also lauded leaders from the South-West, especially Chief Bisi Akande and Chief Segun Osoba for their guidance and critical interventions, which he said ensured that an aspirant from the region emerged as the presidential candidate of the APC. In his congratulatory message, a former Governor of Ogun State and senatorial candidate of the APC in the Ogun East Senatorial District, Otunba Gbenga Daniel described Tinubu as a dogged fighter who knew his onions and would go to lengths to achieve his strategic objectives. A former spokesman for the APC in Lagos State, Seye Oladejo, also said his victory represented a breath of fresh air to the Nigerian nation. Conference of Nigeria Political Parties (CNPP), in a statement signed by its Secretary-General, Chief Willy Ezugwu, commended the APC for borrowing a leaf from the opposition PDP in the smooth conduct of their primary and overcoming earlier temptation to impose a candidate on the party. Similarly, a one-time governorship aspirant on the platform of the APC in Bauchi State, Alhaji Al’ameen Sani Muhammad said the “tough” contest was a clear indication that the party had entrenched in the best democratic tenets.  By Muideen Olaniyi, Balarabe Alkassim, Abbas Jimoh (Abuja), Zahraddeen Yakubu Shuaibu (Kano), Abubakar Akote (Minna), Bola Ojuola (Akure), Mumini AbdulKareem (Ilorin), Peter Moses (Abeokuta), Hameed Oyegbade (Osogbo), Abdullateef Aliyu, Ayobami Balogun (Lagos) & Ahmed Mohammed (Bauchi)