A business mogul, Prince Adewole Adebayo, has emerged as the presidential candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for the 2023 poll. Adebayo scored 1,546 votes to beat Khadijah Okunnu-Lamidi who polled 83 votes at the party’s presidential primary held in Abuja. Also, 44 votes were declared invalid by the Chief Segun Oni-led convention planning committee, which accredited 1,769 delegates across the 36 states and FCT. In his acceptance speech, Adebayo promised to run an all-inclusive government and attract the best brains in various spheres of human endeavours to make the country great again. He said SDP remains the only democratic alternative left for Nigerians “who are tired of the broken promises made by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC). The party’s national chairman, Alhaji Shehu Musa Gabam, said the two leading parties had left Nigerians with so much to desire from their leaders. He lamented that the challenges of corruption, unmitigated lawlessness, gross impunity, spiralling indiscipline and acute insecurity have left Nigeria paradoxically poor amid God-given abundance. Kachikwu emerges ADC presidential candidate Dumebi Kachikwu, the founder and chairman of Roots Television Nigeria, has emerged as the presidential candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). He polled 978 votes to defeat Kingsley Moghalu, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and seven other aspirants at the party’s presidential primary and national convention held on Wednesday and early Thursday in Abeokuta, Ogun State. Other aspirants included Dr Mani Ibrahim, Joyce Ogochukwu Nsaka, Dr Chike Okogwu, Dr Chukwuka Monye, Lady Angela Johnson, Princess Chichi Ojei, Dr Muhammed Lamido, Bishop Ify-George Oforkansi, Dr Favour Ayodele, Evang. Ebiti Ndok Jegede among others. In his welcome address, the national chairman of the party, Ralph Nwosu, lamented that Nigeria had gone from being strong to almost being irrelevant due to the leadership failure of the APC and PDP. “This country must change; our democracy must change so that Africa can stand,” he said. Also, the Allied People’s Movement (APM) has elected its national chairman, Alhaji Yusuf Mamman Dantalle, as its presidential candidate for 2023 general election. Dantalle, who was the sole candidate of the party, was elected by delegates in a presidential primary held in Abuja.   By Abbas Jimoh & Peter Moses, Abeokuta