Ford Trucks have birthed in Nigeria, taking a unique position in the Heavy Duty Commercial Vehicle (HDCV) sector of the Nigerian economy. Coscharis Motors, the sole distributors of Ford Trucks in Nigeria featured two products from the Construction Series, namely, Tipper and Concrete Mixer; and one from the Tractor Series, the Tractor Head. The series adorned the recent Motors Fairs in Lagos as they were presented afresh to stakeholders and industrialists at the fair. Ford Trucks has about 60 years of experience in truck manufacturing and product development for international markets. The specifications for the trucks are available in Nigeria are, 4×2, 6×4 and 8×4 Construction and Tractor series, powered by a powerful Ecotorq 12.7L automatic transmission engine, producing up to 2150 Nm of torque and up to 430 PS power among other features. General Manager, Marketing and Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, said, “We are now into the real trucks itself and that is the Ford Trucks. We took over this franchise two, three years down the line and I can tell you that Ford truck has also been a gamechanger for us in terms of the market. we have trucks for refuse disposal, we have trucks that also take care of construction and you agree with me that you have a whole lot of all those construction projects, we have waste management from all those states going on. These are available markets. “In order to help our customers keep their Ford Trucks on the road, Coscharis has invested heavily on after-sales facilities with OEM trained technicians, original parts and OEM recommended equipment.” Also speaking at the event, General Manager, Sales, Ford Trucks, Coscharis Motors, Helyn Osandu,  said, “We wish to remind our valued customers that purchasing a Ford Trucks product need not be a herculean task, as Coscharis Motors has arranged flexible finance schemes through Coscharis Mobility and a number of other financial institutions, whereby customers can purchase the trucks with equity contributions as low as 30% of the price of the trucks, while the balance is spread over a period of time.” The Director R&D, National Automotive Design and Development Council, NADDC, Dr Fidelis Achiv said, “The trucks look strong and rugged. However, the NADDC is more interested in seeing the trucks fully assembled in Nigeria to deliver transfer of technology and job creation, among other values.” 