The Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) has engaged the legislature, judiciary and other stakeholders on the enforcement of technical standards, regulations and its mandate in the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) and other work places and premises in Nigeria. The agency was established by the NEMSA Act 2015 to carry out the functions of enforcement of technical standards and regulations, technical inspection, testing and certification of all categories of electrical installations, electricity meters and instruments to ensure the efficient production and delivery of safe, reliable and sustainable electricity power supply and guarantee safety of lives and property in NESI and other allied industries or workplaces. 2023: Nigerians’ll vote individuals, not parties -CAN President Despite global disruptions, Nigerian stock market rakes in N831bn in 6 months In his remarks at the second edition of the “Roundtable for Legislature, Judiciary and other Stakeholders”, the Minister of State for Power, Mr Goddy Jedy-Agba, noted that the engagement was aimed at enlightening them on the legal framework of the enforcement powers of NEMSA. He added that the roundtable sought to create awareness on the importance of the mandate/functions of the agency in order to ensure electrical safety requirements were maintained at all times in NESI, homes, offices, among others. A former Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Power, Hon Patrick A. Ikhariale, maintained that the engagement was primarily aimed at creating awareness among stakeholders and the public; noting that awareness creation was a veritable tool in getting the stakeholders and the public to the realisation and understanding of the duties and functions of NEMSA as provided by the enabling act. Such understanding, according to him, will enhance good, harmonious and cordial partnership among NEMSA, the stakeholders and the public; as absence of such understanding was more often than not visited with negatives, including criticism – founded or unfounded – acrimony, nonchalant attitude, among others. Also, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Power, Mr Gabriel Suswan, represented by Senator Yusuf Yusuf, noted that the second edition of the roundtable was taking place at a time when electricity supply in the country was facing a lot challenges due to obsolete and substandard instruments – meters and other facilities – noting that the agency was saddled with the responsibility of enforcing technical standard, regulations and instructions. He assured that the senate would continue to provide legislative interventions and guidance that would fast track the enforcement of the agency’s technical standards and regulations. NEMSA’s compliance task force was inaugurated at the occasion to ensure strict compliance with its technical standards and regulations.