Controversy has trailed the proposed rebuilding of the burnt popular Jos ultra-modern Main Market following the state government’s discussion with Jaiz Bank. The market, which was a major economic hub and significant contributor to the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state, was burnt down in 2001. Minimum wage: Resident doctors issue 2-week ultimatum to FG We’re committed to peace, security in Enugu — MACBAN However, soon after Governor Simon Lalong’s government entered into discussion with the Jaiz Bank, accusations were levelled against the state government from different quarters including the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the state, alleging that the government was ceding the market to an Islamic bank. Some individuals also alleged that if the market was rebuilt, the government would hand it to settlers in the state. In its reaction, however, the state government denied the allegation, saying the MOU it was about to sign with Jaiz Bank was not meant to cede the market to it. The government said rebuilding the market would be beneficial to the state in general. In a statement, the Commissioner of Information and Communication, Mr Dan Manjang said, “The state EXCO mandated its relevant MDAs to carry out sensitization and awareness by engaging various stakeholders ahead of the signing of the MOU for the rebuilding of the Jos Main Market. “The governor also personally engaged top religious, traditional, elders and other leaders of thought on the project, knowing fully the passion that they have on the market which is a great heritage of the state. “Regrettably, the outcome of this engagement has been twisted, politicised and reported under the caption ‘Governor Lalong cedes Jos Main Market to Islamic Bank’. “This has unnecessarily invoked passions and emotions portraying a false narrative that the state was parting with its cherished heritage to an “Islamic Bank,” the statement added. The commissioner further said there was no need for anxiety, sentiments, misgivings, misconceptions and misrepresentation which is being pushed out by political forces which has resulted in name-calling, insults and hatred of both government and individuals in the social media and elsewhere.