United Bank for Africa Plc, has appointed Oliver Alawuba as Group Managing Director, overseeing all the Group’s banking operations across its twenty African country network and globally in the United Kingdom, the United States of America, France, and the United Arab Emirates. Oliver Alawuba joined UBA in 1997 and has held a series of senior positions, including as the CEO of UBA Ghana, the CEO of UBA, Africa and most recently, as Group Deputy Managing Director. UBA Group Chairman, Tony Elumelu, stated “I am very pleased to announce Oliver Alawuba as the new Group Managing Director of the UBA Group. Oliver has extensive experience in Nigeria and our African network and is well equipped to advance our pan-African and global strategy. I have no doubt that Oliver will build on the legacy of Kennedy Uzoka, who has exemplified transformational leadership by championing a customer-first philosophy; launching our twentieth operation in Africa, UBA Mali; acquiring a wholesale banking licence for UBA UK in the United Kingdom; and opening our fourth global operation, UBA Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates”. Alawuba expressed his commitment to his new role as Group Managing Director saying “I am grateful for the opportunity to lead this great institution and would like to thank the UBA Group Chairman and the members of the Board of Directors for the confidence they have put in me to deliver the mandate.” Mr Alawuba takes on his new position from August 1, 2022, subject to approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Muyiwa Akinyemi was also appointed as Deputy Managing Director. Akinyemi joined UBA in 1998, as a Senior Banking Officer in UBA’s Energy Bank, and has served the Group in Nigeria and our broader Africa network for twenty-four years. Other appointments include Ms. Sola Yomi-Ajayi as Executive Director, Treasury and International Banking; Mr. Ugochukwu Nwagodoh, Executive Director, Finance and Risk Management; Mr. Alex Alozie, Executive Director and Group Chief Operating Officer; and Ms. Emem Usoro, Executive Director, North Bank. The Board also announced the retirement of Executive Directors, who have completed their tenures, many of whom it said will continue to serve the broader Group upon regulatory approval of a holding company structure. They include Mr. Kennedy Uzoka, Mr. Uche Ike, Mr. Chukwuma Nweke, Mr. Ibrahim Puri and Mr. Chiugo Ndubisi.