The Youth Assembly of Nigeria (YAN), Toto chapter and other stakeholders in the mining sector have expressed concern over alleged illegal mining activities in Toto LGA of Nasarawa State. In a petition signed by Mr Yusuf Omehi, Speaker; Mr Abdulmutalib Adazigu, Deputy Speaker; and Mr Ismaila Shafa, Clerk of YAN, Toto chapter, obtained by Daily Trust, they accused the mining company of not obtaining clearance from relevant authorities, including YAN, before commencing mining. Insecurity: Recruit 5 million policemen, Oluwo tells Buhari Hundreds flee as bandits abduct 50, take over Kaduna communities YAN, therefore, called on the relevant ministry to direct the company to vacate the site immediately in the interest of peace. Speaking in an interview with journalists, Mr Musa Nasir, chairman, Nigeria Union of Mine Workers (NUMW), Nasarawa State chapter, also described the activities of Joeffry International Mining Limited as illegal and dangerous and urged the company to discontinue work at the site until it gets all the appropriate clearance. “I can authoritatively tell you that Jeoffry International is not a registered mining entity in Nasarawa State. So I have written to the ministry which is in charge of mining and also wrote to the executive governor of Nasarawa State on the illegality being perpetuated in his state,” he added. Responding to the allegations, Mr Jeoffry Sule, Director, Jeoffry International Mining Limited, refuted the accusations, stating that his company was a legitimate company carrying out a legitimate activity. He said they have licences to back up his claim and allayed fears that his company’s activities would engender insecurity in the area. Our correspondent reports that in response to the petition letter from YAN, a team of mining inspectors from the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, Nasarawa State office, led by Engr Gideon Lazarus visited the site on Friday and carried out investigation. The team however said the outcome of the investigation would be revealed after a proper report has been written and submitted to the Federal Minister of Mines and Steel Development.