The Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum (SMBLF) has reiterated its call for the 2023 presidency to be zoned to the Southern part of the country and asked its people to reject any political party that does otherwise. The forum made the call in a communique issued at the end of its meeting held in Abuja even as the group declared its support for a ‘united Nigeria’ anchored “on the tenets of Equity, Fairness, Justice, and the Principle of Federalism.” The meeting held on Thursday, it was learnt, had delegations of the constituent Organisations of the SMBLF led by Chief Ayo Adebanjo, Leader of Afenifere (South West); Dr. Pogu Bitrus, President of the Middle Belt Forum (Middle Belt); Professor George Obiozor, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo represented by the Secretary-General, Ambassador Okey Emuchay, (South -East); and Senator Emmanuel Ibok Essien, FNSE, National Chairman of Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF (South South) represented. Some former governors and leaders of the zone were also at the meeting. In the communique issued at the end of the meeting which was made available to our correspondent, the forum called on all lovers of peace and equity in Nigeria, particularly our people of Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt region to REJECT any political party that fails to zone its Presidential ticket to the South. It further cautioned political stakeholders from Southern Nigeria against aspirations or actions that would compromise the shared Resolve of our people. Daily Trust reports that this is not the first time the forum would be making a case for the presidency to be ceded to the zone as it had earlier backed the position of Southern Governors who also insisted that the next President of Nigeria must come from the South. The forum also decried the “worsening insecurity” in the country, while condemning “the continued kidnappings and killings of innocent citizens and wanton destruction of livelihoods across the country by terrorists and criminals, especially in the North West, North East and Middle Belt region.” It condemned “in the strongest terms, the ongoing massacres and decimation of indigenous populations, especially in Zuru, Kebbi State, Southern Kaduna, Benue, Plateau and Southern Gombe,” while reiterating its call for state police. The group urged the Federal Government to be alive to its primary responsibility of protecting the lives and properties of citizens while safeguarding all communities across Nigeria, and ensuring the immediate return of displaced citizens to their ancestral homes.