A former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has informed traditional rulers in Ekiti State that he will be contesting for the presidency in 2023, saying his desire is for real change in the country. Tinubu said Nigeria needs a competent leader who can unite the people, tackle insecurity and put the economy right for the benefit of the masses. He spoke in Ado Ekiti Thursday, during his consultation with members of the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers in furtherance of his 2023 presidential aspiration. He was accompanied to the venue of the meeting held at the Traditional Council Chambers, by the Deputy Governor Bisi Egbeyemi and top leaders of the Southwest Agenda 2023 for Tinubu Presidential ambition, led by Senator Dayo Adeyeye. Addressing the council, led by the Chairman and Onisan of Isan Ekiti, Oba Gabriel Adejumo, Tinubu said he was in Ekiti to consult the traditional rulers that he would be contesting the 2023 presidency so that they support him with their prayers. “ I want to tell you that Nigeria needs serious change. I knew how Lagos was when I took over and we have never failed any election. There must be continuity in governance for progress to be attained. “I was the first governor in Nigeria to start paying the WAEC fee of secondary school students. I shall do it again as a president,” he said. Tinubu said he decided to consult the traditional rulers before declaring because of the enormous respect he places on culture and tradition. “I have been on Nigeria’s project since the 70’s. I was with MKO Abiola in SDP. I was a senator before he came out. I was the youngest senator of that era. “I was about to become Director of Finance of ExxonMobil, but I rejected it. I said I wanted to serve Nigeria. They gave me a leave of absence to go and do politics for four years and come back, but I only spent two years as a senator when the military came and terminated our tenure… “We believe that there must be democracy in Nigeria, there must be freedom and there must be opportunities,” he said. Speaking on behalf of the council, Oba Adejumo, said the constitution permits every qualified Nigerian to aspire for any position, saying God will help him realise his ambition. Tinubu also visited the palace of Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe, for consultation.