The Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, has hinted that women will use the 2023 general elections to achieve their set goals, following the rejection of proposals to advance their course in the National Assembly. She dropped the hint Wednesday in Abuja while fielding questions from State House reporters after announcing that the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting had approved a revised National Gender Policy 2021 – 2026. The federal lawmakers on Tuesday turned down bills that sought special parliamentary seats for women in the national and state assemblies and 35 per cent affirmative action for women in political parties’ administration in the proposed amendments to the 1999 Constitution. The minister described the rejection of the proposed legislation as most unfortunate and a big show of shame that revealed the insensitivity by the male-dominated parliament. She threatened to mobilise Nigerian women to strategise and make a point during the 2023 elections. “We are strategizing with the female members in both houses of the National Assembly. And I want to assure you, that Nigerian women will not give up; we will keep pushing until we achieve affirmative action. “Other strategies have also been put in place, which I will not disclose now. But we are putting strategies towards the 2023 elections. And we know what to do by the grace of God,” she said. When asked if the strategies being put in place were to vote against men in 2023, she replied: “We believe in democracy, we believe that everyone has the right to test his popularity by contesting. “But again, you will agree with me that women and youths are the greatest voters. And if you negate this huge number of the population of the country that are always consistent to turn in and vote, come rain, come sunshine, then, something will surely happen that would change the narrative, this coming election by the grace of God.” She, however, urged all Nigerians to pray for the men that killed the bill in the National Assembly. On the significance of the approved revised national gender policy, Tallen said “It represents a set of minimum standards expected of the Nigerian government to meet its mandate for gender equality, good governance, accountability and being socially responsive to the needs of its vulnerable group.