No fewer than 19 aspirants, who were zoned out of the National Youth Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) contest, have collapsed their structures and declared support for Olusegun Dada. Dada returned his nomination form to the APC national secretariat on Friday. He was accompanied by the 19 former aspirants across the country and many other stakeholders. Speaking on behalf of Northern aspirants who collapsed their structures for Dada’s aspiration, Barrister Khalifa Binu Yayah, described Dada as a nationalist who should be trusted. Yayah said: “We are using this opportunity to call on our brothers from all the 19 Northern states to endorse Dada because he is someone who has worked for this party,” Yayah said. Speaking on behalf of Progressive Young women in the party, Kemi Asekun, revealed that young women in the APC have also endorsed Dada. “We believe that he has everything it takes to carry the young women along,” Asekun said. On his part, a South-South Youth Leader aspirant, Dagogo Fubara, said Dada’s endorsement is a “unanimous agreement”. “We must go in line with the decision of the party that the South West should produce the National Youth Leader of the party. “And in line with that, we have decided to give total support to one of our own, one of our committed faithful, Segun Dada. Also, the convener of APC Rebirth, Aliyu Audu, also declared support for the candidacy of Dada and appealed to the leaders not to impose anyone on the youth wing of the party, warning that such move may lead to apathy among young people that support and believe in the party. He further warned that any attempt to impose anyone on the youth constituency will be met with stiff resistance.  ‘No to imposition’ Speaking with newsmen after the form’s submission, Dada said his campaign to contest for the position started in 2020, adding that the show of support he has received was a manifestation of the people’s belief in his candidacy. He said: “We owe the mandate to the young people of our party. “We have been to all parts of the country and we believe that our manifesto, when implemented, gives the young people of our party the right opportunities in the All Progressives Congress and Nigeria at large. “We are appealing to our leaders to understand that this is a youth constituency and we as the young people deserve the right to choose those who are able to represent us in the National Working Committee (NWC) of out party and I have presented myself as the best foot forward and champion for our young people in this great party to push for everything that they deserve. “And I have given my word here and now that I will never ever disappoint you. “I will fight for your rights, I will lobby for your rights, I will negotiate for your rights. I will do everything within my power to protect the confidence you have given me.”