Amidst wide speculations about his membership in the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a former governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, has said he is still a member of the party, even as he confirmed talks between him and the New Nigeria People’s Party (NNPP). Kwankwaso made this known in an interview with BBC, adding that the recently launched political group; ‘The National Movement’ gave birth to the NNPP. Daily Trust reports that in February 2022, Kwankwaso launched The National Movement (TNM), alongside some of the country’s leading politicians. “As we speak, I am still in the PDP. We started the movement step by step. The first is to withdraw to the background, thinking some people within the party will want to hear our grievances, but the party didn’t do anything; we joined the group and still, nothing was done by the party, now we are at the level of a political party. “Even as I speak with you, we are still between a group and a political party, and I have not left the PDP, but this group has linked up with the NNPP. “The issue is not about Rabi’u Kwankwaso or Kwankwasiyya movement. It is about ‘The National Movement’ and we are many in it, and most of the people in the movement are influential people, so I can’t take any decision alone,” he said. When asked about the reported dissolution of the NNPP leadership even before they joined, he said: “Actually the party is not ours, but they want us to be involved. That was why they want to bring their representatives and want us to do the same. And their tenure has lapsed and they have all stepped down, including the person that registered it more than 20 years ago. “So it is a fresh arrangement that they are making to involve all of us because in most states they don’t have anybody.” Reacting to Kwankwaso’s statement, a former Senate president, Bukola Saraki, expressed joy, saying the former Kano governor will remain in PDP. “I am happy to read that my friend Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso has clarified the air on his party affiliation. This is the right decision to take. “Following my consultation with several leaders and stakeholders of the PDP in Kano State, who paid me a visit this past weekend at my home in Abuja, I am resolute that Senator Kwankwaso and his structure will remain in the party to rescue and rebuild Nigeria,” Saraki said on his Facebook wall.