The presidency, state governors, lawmakers, party executives and prominent support groups are expected to converge at the venue. This year’s edition, which according to organisers, will be chaired by President Muhammadu Buhari, is expected to be another avenue for the national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Tinubu and his supporters, to make a case for his 2023 presidential ambition. Tinubu, who announced his intention to succeed Buhari in 2023, has been touring some states and holding consultations with political stakeholders as well as traditional rulers. In recent times, most of the activities in Lagos State have been used to campaign for the presidential bid of the former governor, who is regarded as the political godfather of the state. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is the chief host. The organisers of the annual colloquium said this year’s edition will examine emerging global development issues and the importance of good governance for Nigeria to be an influential and respected member of the international community. The keynote speaker, Professor Olufemi Bamiro, former vice-chancellor of the University of Ibadan, is expected to engage the central theme, ‘Pivoting Nigeria into the New World Order: Imperatives of Good Governance’. The chairman of the Media and Publicity sub-committee, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said the colloquium will also feature a panel session where some of Nigeria’s leading technology entrepreneurs will discuss “Technology, Entrepreneurship and the Future of Work’. The panel discussion, to be moderated by Tomilayo Akanni-Aluko, will have Bosun Tijani, Chief Executive Officer of Co-Creation Hub, as the lead discussant. Other panellists include Samson Ogbole, Managing Director, Soiless Farms; Temie Giwa-Tubosun, Group Chief Executive, Life Bank; Kikelomo Fola-Ogunniya, co-founder, Jand2Gidi; and Lot Madaki, Chief Executive Officer, Madaki Shoes. Omotoso noted that Bola Tinubu, the man in whose honour the annual event is being organised, is an extraordinary statesman who has committed himself to make Nigeria one of the most prosperous nations. “The theme speaks to the person and values of Asiwaju Tinubu. To celebrate his 70th birthday, this year’s colloquium theme is most appropriate. “We are talking about an outstanding public servant, who is an advocate of good governance in Nigeria and Africa. He demonstrated this as governor of Lagos in eight years where he laid the solid foundation for the progress and prosperity of Lagos State that we all talk about today,” he said. Meanwhile, Tinubu, has counselled the newly elected members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to work in unity towards achieving a common purpose. He gave the charge, yesterday, in his congratulatory message to the national chairman of the party, Alhaji Abdullahi Adamu. Tinubu, while extolling Adamu as an experienced administrator and able statesman, said the NWC and party members must work together in common purpose with commitment to ensure another resounding victory at all levels for the APC in 2023. “We acknowledge the calibre of men and women elected to the leadership positions of the party as pledged. We encourage them to work in unity toward our common purpose. In this way, victory for the party and excellent governance for the Nigerian people shall be assured,” he said The 2023 presidential hopeful added that the successful conduct of the national convention demonstrated the resilience of APC to establish democratic good governance and economic prosperity in Nigeria.