Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule, has reaffirmed his support for his predecessor, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, for the chairmanship position of the All Progressives Congress (APC), ahead of the party’s convention slated for March 26. Sule also called for caution, warning his friends, colleagues and political appointees, to be circumspect while making comments regarding the contest involving two political bigwigs in the state. Aside Al-Makura, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, another former governor of the state has joined the chairmanship race. There were reports that President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed Adamu. Governor Sule restated the call while being presented with the report of the APC fact-finding and reconciliation committee, at the government house, Lafia, the state capital. “I have no regret whatsoever being able to say I am supporting Tanko Al-Makura. And I still support him. But if God says it’s Abdullahi Adamu, he is also my father and our leader; I will give him all the maximum support. Because it’s only God who will decide who is the leader of the party,” he said. Sule said since Senator Abdullahi Adamu is somebody who deserves respect, it was better those in government said less, in order not to overheat the polity. Why my declaration was delayed – Abdullahi Adamu Meanwhile, Senator Abdullahi Adamu has disclosed that his declaration for the chairmanship contest was delayed because he was engrossed with reconciliation of party members across the country. He disclosed this when he met APC members of the House of Representatives on Tuesday. According to him, he was busy with the party’s reconciliation committee that met with aggrieved members of the party and that the assignment delayed his declaration. Senator Adamu said he accepted to contest for the chairmanship of the party after being advised by well-meaning associates. Earlier, the House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, who welcomed Adamu, commended him for the meeting, saying as an elder and a seasoned politician, he has the political clout to lead the party.