Uncertainty and confusion have trailed the revelation by Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso of his plan to dump the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at the end of the month with some of his followers saying they will not follow him. Daily Trust reports that Kwankwaso is the founder and leader of the Kwankwasiyya movement, which heads a faction of the PDP in Kano State. The two-term governor of Kano State has been linked with moves to dump the PDP for either the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) or to form a new party, but reports have now surfaced that he has concluded plans to join the New Nigerian Progressive Party (NNPP). Recall that Kwankwaso had last month launched ‘The National Movement (TNM) with some of his associates. However, the former governor confirmed to BBC Hausa on Thursday that preparations were in top gear for his decamping along with other Kwankwasiyya members, and that he is set to move to the NNPP. This and other issues in the party and the Kwankwasiyya movement have generated a lot of controversies which have left many stakeholders in the camp in confusion as to where they are moving to. Also, crisis has erupted in the NNPP, the party they are said to be planning to switch to after it was gathered that the national secretariat of the party had dissolved the state’s executive to pave way for Kwankwaso to take control of the state’s architecture. But some members of the party are not happy with the development with some already mulling legal action. It was also widely reported that a former chairman of the PDP in Kano and member of the Kwankwasiyya movement, Umar Haruna Doguwa, has been appointed as the caretaker chairman of the party. The NNPP, hitherto relatively unknown in Kano State, has been gathering momentum since the former governor hinted of decamping and contesting the presidential seat from the party, with hundreds of Kwankwasiyya members sharing its logo, a basket of fruits, on social media. I am not leaving PDP – Sagagi Meanwhile, when Daily Trust contacted the Kano State chairman of the PDP loyal to Kwankwaso, Shehu Wada Sagagi, he said he was not aware of Kwankwaso’s planned movement to another party. “Even if Kwankwaso is decamping to any other party, I am not going anywhere. I will mobilize some of the stakeholders to remain in PDP. I wasn’t in APC before so I have to stay here. We can’t leave the party we built for long,” he said. Ours is loyalty – Dangwani Also contacted, a former commissioner during Kwankwaso’s administration and one of the ex-governor’s top associates, Dr Yunusa Adamu Dangwani, said the right person to comment on the matter was Comrade Aminu Abdussalam but who was not available to respond to a call from our reporter. When asked if they will follow Kwankwaso to NNPP, Dangwani said: “We are loyalists of Kwankwaso and ready to go with him. But you should wait until the time comes,” he said. Daily Trust gathered that all eyes are now on the date and time Kwankwaso will declare his move to the party, and whether or not his Kwankwasiyya supporters will follow him. Meanwhile, Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi and other political gladiators’ have unveiled the NNPP in Kaduna State. Hunkuyi dumped the Peoples Democratic Party on Wednesday for the NNPP. Speaking at the official unveiling ceremony of the new party and inauguration of Interim Leadership Committees, Hunkuyi said it’s time for Nigerians to come together to find a way. According to him, the two leading political parties are the major problems of the country because they failed to deliver good governance to the people.