A former Nasarawa State Governor and frontline APC chairmanship aspirant, Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, has said he is the only aspirant fully endorsed by his state. He also said he has the capacity to end the crisis in the ruling party. Addressing members of the APC Caucus of the House of Representatives on Thursday, Al-Makura said he has been endorsed by the Nasarawa State governor, Abdullahi Sule and all critical stakeholders of the party in the state. “All the elected persons in Nasarawa State have endorsed my candidature. Politics is local. From the governor to the members of the National Assembly, to members of the House of Assembly, Commissioners, local government chairmen and even councillors and party leadership all have endorsed me,” he said. Al-Makura, who is in the race with another former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, recalled how the APC was formed at the build-up to the 2015 general elections. Al-Makura was the only governor produced by the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), founded by President Muhammadu Buhari. Responding to questions on how he would face the challenges of the party, the APC chairmanship aspirant said, he has the experience to turn the issues confronting the party for good. According to him, leadership determines peace or otherwise that exists in organisations, including political parties. He noted that political parties are not devoid of crises because of the existence of divergent views and interests as is presently being witnessed in the APC. He however said, all issues could be resolved with better understanding and focused leadership. Giving a rundown of his political experience, Al-Makura said he began his involvement in politics when he was a student. Earlier, the House Leader, Alhassan Ado Doguwa, noted that Senator Al-Makura is a seasoned politician who belongs to the National Assembly. He said the interaction was a family affair which provided an opportunity to rub minds and hear from the APC national chairmanship aspirant.