Row over multiple designations for foreign airlines operating into the country deepened as the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON) threatened to sue the Federal Government. President of the AON, Alhaji Yunusa Abdulmunaf, spoke at the first quarter Business Breakfast Meeting organised by the Aviation Roundtable and Safety Initiative (ART), a body of industry think-tank. The theme of the meeting was: “Economic Implications of Multiple Entry Points by Foreign Airlines Into Nigeria.” The AON made its view known just as the federal government also defended its decision to allow foreign airlines to land in many airports in the country, saying it was essentially to boost revenue for the government. Daily Trust reports that there has been an unending battle between the federal government and some stakeholders over the decision to grant multiple entry points to foreign airlines. As of today, there are some airlines flying to four different designations in Nigeria while Qatar Airways was just recently granted more slots to increase its flights in the country to 21 weekly flights, landing at Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Port Harcourt Airports. AON President who was represented by his vice, Mr Allen Onyema stated that multiple slots to foreign airlines is a disservice to Nigeria as it stymies the capacity of local carriers to grow. Abdulmunaf said, “How do you encourage your national airline when foreign airlines are allowed to conduct domestic operations in the name of international operations in your country? No country allows that, not even the United States with its powerful economy. “You allow Qatar land in Kano, from Kano they go to Port Harcourt, from Port Harcourt to Abuja and then Abuja back to their country. AON is not ready to wait another one month for this thing to be rescinded.” Sirika in his presentation read by the Secretary General of ART, Group Captain John Ojikutu said, “Multiple entry points are granted to foreign airlines based on the nature of their BASAs. It expands the business and grows the economy of foreign airlines. “It also generates revenue for the country as foreign airlines are able to land at different airports connecting different areas of the country to foreign countries thereby promoting commercial trade, tourism and friendly relations.” President of ART, Dr. Gabriel Olowo said: “The damage of multiple entries into Nigeria is huge. Britain for instance has 21 flights into Nigeria weekly. European Unions have 43 frequencies every week into Nigeria. Also the Middle East has 56 flights weekly into multiple entries into Nigeria.”