Stallion Auto Keke Limited (SAKL), a member of Stallion Group and Nigeria’s sole distributor of Bajaj 3-wheelers & quadricycles (Qute), has rolled out 100,000 Bajaj Keke into the nation’s tricycle market within a space of 18 months. Managing Director, SAKL and VON Automobiles of Nigeria Limited, Mr. Manish Rohtagi, in a chat with newsmen to celebrate the milestone attributed the feat to his company’s relentless effort towards delivering international quality Kekes and creating economic value for Nigerians. He said the company embarked on an overall cost-effective empowerment programme for the Nigerian youths by making the Bajaj Keke the most affordable in the country. He said, “To this end, we embarked on empowerment of Nigerians, empowerment of females and empowerment of our staff, thereby creating a winning team, which facilitated the unprecedented production of 100,000 units of Bajaj Keke within a short span of 18 months. “For effectiveness, we also introduced auto finance, an essential ingredient of the nation’s Auto Industry Development Plan (NAIDP), thereby working closely with Microfinance banks, towards empowering Nigerian youths. “While we provide the unemployed youths with riding skills and techniques, our partner Microfinance Banks provide liquidity with a zero-gestation period to ensure their daily income as micro-entrepreneurs. As a result of the foregoing efforts, driving Keke has, today, become the best Micro Entrepreneurship in the country. It would be recalled that the company had, as of December 2021, trained and integrated into its assembly plant in Lagos, not less than 40 women with a target of training and absorbing 500 female technicians by the end of 2022. The Super Keke introduced in 2020 has special features such as the front fork (the first in class twin suspension set up at the front which ensures no shoulder pain), CV shaft, bigger 10” tyres, clear headlamps, MP3 player, seat headrest which provides more comfort for both driver and passengers on longer rides, among others. The Bajaj Auto has also upped the style quotient of the vehicle through a rear spoiler and a transparent passenger hood. 