A former Deputy Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George at the weekend insisted that he will leave Nigeria if the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and a presidential aspirant, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu becomes the President of Nigeria. According to him, Tinubu has not done anything for the country to deserve such an honour as being elected President of Nigeria. Woman killed as vigilantes, kidnappers exchange gunfire in Kwara My governorship bid, not a do or die affair — NIMASA DG George made this statement in a chat with newsmen at his Lugard Office in Lagos during which he also rejected the move by the Lagos State Government to reopen the Lekki tollgate on April 1. Daily Trust reports that this was not the first time the PDP leader would vow to leave Nigeria if Tinubu becomes the President. Reiterating this, he said he might go to Ghana and be watching from afar if the APC leader succeeds President Muhammadu Buhari. He also commended the President for signing the Electoral Act into law, saying this would improve the electoral process. George said, “I am happy the President has signed the new electoral bill. If by whatever chance he gets to the villa, I won’t be part of this country. And I am not joking. I can go to Ghana and watch with binoculars from afar. You will see what will happen. “This is Alpha-Beta in Lagos. He will create some Alter-Beta somewhere to carry your money. His wife will now be Senate President. His son will be Governor of Lagos. His daughter will be Iyaloja of Nigeria. What has he done to prove that he deserves to be honoured by anybody in this country?” On the move to reopen the toll plazas which were shut after the October 20, 2020 incident which trailed the #EndSARS protest, Bode George who is the Atona Oodua of Yorubaland and Chairman of Omo Eko Pataki, rejected the move, saying it would add to the woes of the people. Rather, he called for the dismantling of the toll gates, saying the two Toll gates should be scrapped, dismantled outright while “a befitting memorial should be erected in lasting permanence about the patriots who lost their lives on October 20/2020.” He said, “It is rather sad and sickening, in this time of grave moral challenges, when the ordinary Lagosian can hardly find three square meals a day; when the commuters cannot afford the fare of transportation; when parents cannot afford the sky-rocketing school fees for their children; when the ordinary tenants can hardly pay their annual rent. “Behold! Behold! Behold! this is the unsavoury time that the government of Lagos state has chosen to impose more burden on the average Lagosian. They want to bring the toll gates back! It is cruel, insensitive, vicious, totally unacceptable. It is misgovernance of the worst scale.” He also tasked the state government to pay necessary compensation to the families of the deceased, adding that October 20/2020 should henceforth be declared as patriot’s day in eternal remembrance of the #Endsars heroes.