The Caucus and the National Executive Committee (NEC)   meetings of the  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday ended with members unable to come to a compromise on some of the key issues including zoning. First it was the caucus meeting that was held at the Akwa Ibom Governor’s lodge in Asokoro, Abuja on Wednesday. The meeting, which started at about 10am, lasted for about five hours with members still unwilling to shift ground on many of the vexed issues ahead of the 2023 general elections. The issues expected to be trashed at the meeting included zoning, timetable and guidelines of the party in preparation for the general elections. The meeting, which was earlier billed for Monday night, was adjourned after members failed to shift ground on the issues that bordered mainly on their personal ambition for 2023. Daily Trust gathered that despite entreaties from the National Chairman of the party, Dr Iyorchia Ayu, those for and against zoning stood their ground and the matter had to be moved to the NEC meeting to allow a larger house to decide the best way forward. Our correspondent reports that the NEC meeting ended around 8pm with the issue of zoning unresolved. Following the deadlock, the party set up a 37 man zoning committee to make recommendations on how best to address the issue. The committee was given two weeks to come up with recommendations that will put the party in a good stead for the 2023 presidential election. Addressing journalists after the meeting that ended at about 8pm, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Hon. Debo Ologunagba however said NEC approved the guidelines and timetable for the 2023 elections. NEC also approved the commencement of sale of Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms from today. “NEC also approved the establishment of a 37-member zoning committee to make recommendations for the zoning of various elective positions for the 2023 general elections,” he said. For those interested in contesting for the presidential ticket of the party, they will pay N5m for expression of interest and N35m for nomination form. Those eyeing the governorship ticket of the party are to pay N21m for both nomination and expression of interest forms. The NEC also approved a 50% reduction in nomination fees for youths aged 25 to 30 years for various elective positions.