The all-new Mercedes-Benz S-Class has been described as an automotive luxury experienced in a completely new way. Built on the legendary and traditional engineering expertise that has defined the luxury segment in the automobile industry for decades, the S-Class is the top-tier model for Mercedes-Benz saloon cars. It comes with several innovations and all the senses – seeing, feeling, hearing and smelling – which make driving a pleasurable experience for the driver and passengers. The all-new S-Class premieres the second generation of the MBUX (Mercedes-Benz User Experience). CEO, Weststar Associates Limited, the official distributor of Mercedes Benz in Nigeria, Mr. Mirko Plath, said the all-new S-Class is an improvement on the previous models. He said, “Mercedes-Benz has upped the game with regards to technology and luxury in the automotive industry with the introduction of the all-new S-Class, not compromising on the philosophy of this historic Mercedes-Benz brand, they have managed to yet again create an envy for all.” The all-new S-Class highlights a digital-analogue revolution in the interior, which has fully evolved into a “third place”, a refuge between home and workplace. The sculptured look of the dashboard, centre console and armrests appear to float above an expansive interior landscape. The systematic reduction in the number of controls underscores the minimalist appearance of the interior. The desired harmony between digital and analogue luxury results in a revolutionary interior design, including associations with interior architecture and yacht design elements. The driver display and media display offer a comprehensive aesthetic experience. The appearance of the screens can be individualized with a choice of four display styles (Discreet, Sporty, Exclusive, Classic) and three modes (Navigation, Assistance, Service). The seats literally invite the occupants to sit down and relax. The flowing, three-dimensional layer design theme gives an impression of lightness. Ten different massage programmes are available in the new S-Class. These use the vibration motors, and can enhance the effect of a relaxing massage with warmth on the hot-stone principle. The Burmester® sound system provides multi-dimensional surround sound. 3D Surround Sound is created with the help of special Burmester® algorithms and two loudspeakers integrated into the headlining. Mercedes-Benz has now realized interactive interior lighting for the first time. The active ambient lighting is now integrated into the driving assistance systems and is able to reinforce alerts visually. The exterior design of the all-new S-Class illustrates modern luxury in its most desirable form. With a short front overhang, a long wheelbase and a balanced rear overhang, the S-Class is designed as a classical saloon with perfect proportions.