Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, the pioneer Takaful insurance firm in Nigeria, has kicked off roadshow activities in Kano to entrench and deepen penetration on Takaful insurance, expressing its commitment to promote ethical insurance in Nigeria. The roadshow kicked off with a homage to the Emir of Kano, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, in his palace. 2023: El-Rufai’s successor must be highly educated like him — APC stakeholders Driver, others escape as vehicle bursts into flames in Abuja Alhaji Aminu commended the organisation for bringing such opportunity to the people of Kano State, particularly at a time when many Nigerians were looking for a viable alternative to conventional insurance. The emir called on Nigerians to embrace the system of Takaful insurance given its immense benefits and acceptance in the Islamic world. He urged the organisation to remain truthful to its promise in its dealings with people and its operations. The vice chairman of Noor Takaful Insurance Limited, Aminu Tukur, who spoke during a hangout after a visit to the emir’s palace, explained that Takaful insurance offered an investment plan that allowed customers to have a systematic and committed strategy to save for their future with guaranteed protection. According to Tukur, the roadshow is intended to sensitise and set the pace for the North to embrace insurance, especially Takaful insurance, as an alternative to conventional insurance to cater to the sentiments of religion and tradition. He said, “Takaful is based on Sharia principles. If you do not get a claim, you will be entitled to get a surplus. Noor Takaful, which started operations five years ago, has been paying surplus distribution to those who have not made claims over the last three or four years. We are the first and only Takaful operator ever to do that. We are in the process of paying another one this year.” He noted that the Takaful offerings were accepted globally, adding that countries like Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates (UAE) had taken advantage of its benefits.