The Governor Aminu Bello Masari-led Screening Sub-committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has screened all the seven chairmanship aspirants ahead of the party’s national convention slated for Saturday. Their screening exercise took place at the Katsina Governors’ Lodge in Abuja. Daily Trust reports that the screening exercise commenced on Tuesday night with chairmanship aspirants and spilt over to Wednesday with the screening of a former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and others. Our correspondent gathered from party sources at the screening ground that all the chairmanship aspirants who bought expression of interest and nomination forms turned out for the screening and no one was confirmed disqualified as of the time of filing this report. The chairmanship contenders are; a former governor of Nasarawa State, Tanko Al-Makura; Senator representing Niger-East, Sani Musa; a former governor of Zamfara State, Abdullaziz Yari; Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume; a former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu; Turaki Ilorin, Saliu Mustapha and Saidu Etsu. The sub-committee headed by Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari, was screening national vice-chairmen at the time of filing this report. After screening the chairmanship aspirants, the committee screened contestants for the office of deputy national chairman (North and South) before beginning that of the vice-chairmen. Those contesting the office of deputy national chairman (North) are; Sunny Sylvester Moniedafe (Jagaban Jimeta); a former governor of Bauchi State, Isa Yuguda; a former speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and Senator Abubakar Girei who were all screened. Meanwhile, some aspirants seeking elective offices at the national convention are groaning over the slow pace at which the exercise is being conducted. Some of the aspirants waiting to be screened at the venue of the exercise told our correspondent that they had been on the ground since morning but had not been screened yet. Daily Trust reports that based on the schedule of activities and timetable for the Saturday elective national convention, the screening of aspirants was supposed to be done last Saturday, followed by appeals on Sunday.