The newly sworn-in national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Abdullahi Adamu, has said the National Working Committee (NWC) under his watch would work day and night for the party to retain power in 2023. Adamu, who spoke at the APC national secretariat in Abuja, on Wednesday, while receiving handover notes from Yobe State governor and Chairman of the outgoing Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni, said President Muhammadu Buhari will not tolerate failure. Senator Adamu, a former governor of Nasarawa State, said winning the 2023 poll is a herculean task but surmountable and charged members of the NWC and other critical stakeholders of the party to imbibe the spirit of teamwork in realising the party’s dream. “How do we win the general election? People are talking, oh, APC does not have an incumbent on the ticket. We will have the honour and the integrity and the legacy of the current president on the ticket. “We will work day and night. We have less than 12 months to face the general elections. So, everybody should buckle up. The little I have had about the president is that he has complete allergy to failure. “So, failure will not be in APC from today. We will work for success together. If any of you my colleagues who are with me, don’t begrudge me, if there is any issue, let me know. “I promise you in the spirit of collective leadership that teamwork is the only way. I cannot deliver alone. What I am asking for is something called ‘loyalty’. “You have to be loyal. You must have one team. If you bring division tendency, we will deal with it. This country is greater than any one of us. And this party is bigger than any single member of this party. So, that is the spirit I am taking the leadership of this country. “And we are expected to take off as soft landing like we have been given. This is the spirit with which we are going to work. “And I want to appeal to you as I told you during my speech after the convention. I will be counting on you. You may have taken the cap off my head, there may have been some issues working in your brain. There may have been some work that you wish to do but pass it to me,” Senator Adamu said. Earlier, Buni asked Adamu to sustain the legacies bequeathed by the caretaker committee. “As members of the NWC of the party, you have a herculean task. First, to sustain the gains and coming at a time when this party will soon start its nomination process. And obviously, the task before you is enormous,” he said.