Three governors who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have met a former governor of Nasarawa State, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, in a bid to resolve the logjam trailing the endorsement of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as a consensus candidate. Daily Trust had exclusively reported on February 24 the endorsement of Senator Adamu, also a former governor of Nasarawa State and ranking lawmaker by President Muhammadu Buhari as the consensus candidate for the national chairmanship position of the party. The meeting between the North Central governors and Al-Makura was sequel to the governors’ meeting with the president on Tuesday. Efforts by some governors to make the president withdraw his endorsement of Adamu did not scale through on Tuesday. A reliable source said after their meeting with the president, the governors of Plateau, Nasarawa and Niger states met with Al-Makura at the Plateau Governor’s lodge. The source said the meeting was convened as part of moves to resolve issues trailing the endorsement of Adamu by the president. It was further gathered that the governors are expected to meet other aspirants. The party’s chairmanship has been zoned to the North Central ahead of the national convention slated for March 26. Aside from Adamu and Al-Makura, the geopolitical zone has other aspirants including Saliu Mustapha (Kwara) Senator Sani Musa (Niger) and Senator George Akume (Benue). When contacted, a senior aide of Al-Makura confirmed to Daily Trust that the meeting was actually held, but he was not privy to what transpired. Meanwhile, a former governor of Borno State, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, has said he will respect President Buhari’s choice of the next national chairman of the APC. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday in Abuja, Sheriff, who is one of the top contenders for the party’s chairmanship, said he is in the race to win and strengthen the APC to retain power in 2023. He, however, said though President Buhari had not released any official statement on his endorsement of any aspirant, he would abide by the decision of Mr. President at any time he made an official decision on zoning or endorsement of any particular aspirant. “As a loyal party member, I will abide by decisions of Mr. President at any time he makes an official decision on zoning or endorsement of any particular candidate. “I have unequivocal confidence in Mr. President’s capacity to make the right choice for the growth of our party. “I am totally committed to working with anyone/everyone to reposition our party towards actualizing resounding victory in 2023 general elections and beyond. “Our guiding principle will be the party’s constitution and manifesto, and I will be committed to it,” he said. Kwara gov heads zoning committee The APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee has constituted the party’s zoning committee ahead of the March 26 convention of the party. A statement on Wednesday by the Secretary of the Caretaker Committee, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, said the zoning committee is headed by Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazak and the Deputy President of the Senate, Ovie Omo-Agege, as deputy chairman. According to the statement, the deputy governor of Anambra State, Nkem Okeke, is secretary; while Prof. Etim Nyong, Dr. MB Shehu, Comrade Mustapha Salihu, Sen. Teslim Folarin and Alhaji Sadeeq Sule-Iko Sami are members. Our correspondent reports that the party, however, failed to state the terms of reference of the committee and the timeframe within which to complete its assignment.