A former governor of Benue State and Minister of Special Duties and Intergovernmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, has expressed his satisfaction with the screening of aspirants for the national chairmanship position in the forthcoming All Progressives Congress (APC) national convention. The chairmanship candidate, who was accompanied to the screening venue by some APC leaders across the states of the federation and other stakeholders, expressed confidence that the screening exercise will produce quality leadership for the ruling party. Akume said: “I don’t know whether it’s an interview, it’s a screening exercise. “They asked me questions on political realities of our time, so these are issues that affect many other political parties even the big ones like APC which is a flagship political party at the moment. “It was an interactive session so to speak and I think I learnt much from them and I think they learnt a little from me. By and large, it was okay.” Akume was among the national chairmanship aspirants screened Tuesday evening in Abuja. Other national chairmanship aspirants at the screening include Senator Sani Musa, Senator Tanko Al-Makura, Saliu Mustapha, Mohammed Etsu, a former governor Abdulaziz Yari and Senator Abdullahi Adamu. Meanwhile, a Forum of Christians and Muslims Youth of Nigeria have backed Akume’s national chairmanship aspiration. At a media briefing at the end of their meeting in Abuja, the forum said that Akume is the best for the party and by extension the country. Leaders of the forum, Mallam Yusuf Muhammed and Mr Peter Bassey Asuquo, President and National Publicity Secretary respectively, said Akume will unite the party and ensure the party win the 2023 Presidential election. “The Forum of Christians and Muslims Youth of Nigeria recommend Senator George Akume without reservations as the best candidate for the APC National Chairmanship based on his competence, experience, and nationalism, Muhammed said. Earlier in the week, the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, had pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari, governors on the platform of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), their deputies and all other stakeholders to consider the candidature of Senator Akume for the position of the national chairman “for the sake of fairness, equity, and justice.”