Stallion NMN Limited, Nigeria’s exclusive representative of Nissan brand, has officially revealed the new Navara pickup truck, emphasising the very many exploits the Nissan brand has recorded in Nigeria. At the launch held in Lagos with corporate, government and individual customers from across the country in attendance, the General Manager of Stallion NMN Limited, Mr. Amit Sharma, described the launch of the new Navara as a continuation of his company’s journey towards transforming Nigeria into a notable hub for manufacturing and distribution of Nissan vehicles. According to him, Stallion-Nissan is ever conscious of what he described as Nigeria’s incredibly huge potential, hence its resolve to keep investing in the nation’s automobile industry. He recalled that in 2013, Stallion NMN Limited, a subsidiary of Stallion Group, partnered with Nissan Motor Corporation to transform Nigeria into a notable hub for manufacturing and distribution of Nissan vehicles. He said, “Barely a year after the Stallion-Nissan agreement, Nigeria’s then newly revived auto policy received a boost from a Nissan Assembly plant located at our VON Automobiles complex in Lagos. “From the plant, the first locally assembled Nissan Patrol was rolled out in 2014. Since then, we have significantly invested in the local production of other vehicles, including Nissan Almera, NP300 Pickups and Urvan NV350. “The foregoing has meant enormous economic benefits to Nigeria and Nigerians, especially in terms of hundreds of direct and indirect jobs and enhanced technical skill for a good number of Nigerian workers via the provision of world-class training. “As a result, the Nissan brand recorded a significant boost in market share. And, in 2015, Stallion NMN won the prestigious Nissan Global Sales Award for exceptionally growing the market share by 18%. “That’s not all. Stallion-Nissan Alliance also yielded vast Corporate Social Responsibility benefits for Nigerians. These include supporting the government’s efforts to reduce the effect of COVID-19 pandemic on citizens as well as far-reaching donations towards government’s efforts at tackling insecurity in the country, chiefly government security agencies in Lagos and its surroundings.” Sharma also reiterated that Stallion-Nissan has embarked on new model introductions, covering a range of passenger, commercial and other specialized vehicles for the benefit of individuals, government departments and businesses in Nigeria. “One of them,” he stated, “is the all-new Nissan Navara, which we are launching this evening.”