The campaign posters of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, are at the premises of the ongoing Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Emefiele’s posters are seen alongside those of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for President, Gov. David Umahi and Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation. Aside Emefiele, the above-mentioned individuals have been linked to the APC Presidential race. Although the CBN governor has not declared interest in the presidential race, different support groups have been campaigning on his behalf. Daily Trust gathered that a pro-Emefiele’s presidency group, Emefiele Solidarity Vanguard (ESV), are behind the posters. The group is asking APC leaders at the ongoing national convention to allow Emefiele to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The group in their hundreds dressed in branded “Emefile for President” T-shirts, said that President Muhammadu Buhari has been able to achieve so much because of the policy of the CBN and its implementation by the Emefiele-led team. Addressing newsmen during the rally to seek more support for the CBN governor, coordinator of the group, Pariot Daniel Enyi, said his group was at the national convention to “celebrate the anchor borrower’s scheme of the federal government which has led to the agricultural revolution, the monetary policy that has stabilised the economy, the Forex Policy, the transformation of the automobile industry, the ease of doing business, social investment program and many more. “As the tenure of President Muhammadu Buhari is coming to an end, the Nation needs a very strong will and ideologically transformed personality with justifiable evidence of patriotic services like Dr Godwin Emefiele as the next President of Nigeria.” While asking APC leaders to support the group for the actualisation of Emefele’s presidency, Enyi said: “We have identified Dr Godwin Emefiele based on his sense of patriotism and commitment to duty, his genuineness in rendering service to the Nation as President Buhari’s possible successor.” On Friday, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) demanded the immediate resignation and investigation of the apex bank’s Governor. in reaction to his appearance in APC campaign posters. The PDP had argued that the appearance of the CBN Governor who is the banker of the federation, and who by law, ought to be non-partisan and apolitical, in APC campaign material is the “height of impunity of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration,” that is negligent in maintaining the rule of law. The action by Mr Emefiele is also said to be contrary to the provision of Section 9 of the Central Bank of Nigeria (Establishment) Act which provides that “the governor and the deputy governors shall devote the whole of their time to the service of the bank and while holding office, shall not engage in any full or part-time employment or vocation, whether remunerated or not…” The PDP further alleged that by engaging in partisan politics to the extent of appearing in APC campaign posters, Mr Emefiele has knowingly and deliberately violated the provision of the CBN Act.