 President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday inaugurated the new ultramodern terminal of the Murtala Muhammad International Airport (MMIA) directing the Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika to fast-track the concession of the airports. The president who inaugurated the terminal with the capacity to accommodate 14m passengers said, “With the delivery of this project, a new era of safety, security and comfort has been ushered into the Nigerian aviation industry and I am persuaded that it will get better with the passage of time.” The newly commissioned terminal is one of the four airport terminals funded by the China Export and Import Bank and constructed by the China Civil Engineering and Construction Corporation (CCECC). The ceremony also witnessed the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Lagos State government and the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) for the development of the-Airport Alimosho By-Pass project, which was designed to end traffic gridlock on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway and ease traffic to the Lagos airport. Buhari said the investment in air, rail and road infrastructure reflects the commitment of the administration to the development of world-class infrastructure across all sectors of the Nigerian economy. He recalled that the airport terminal development projects were at 11% completion when his administration took over in 2015. According to him, the new terminal will increase airport operations and management services to about 14 million passengers per annum, with the attendant positive multiplier effects, by creating about 3,000 direct and indirect employment opportunities for our youths, increased inflow of Foreign Direct Investments and exponential growth in the Gross Domestic Product. He said, “Despite obvious limitations in terms of availability of resources, our investments in inter-state rail connectivity, road networks, agriculture, power and telecommunications, just to mention a few, have been unprecedented. “Bearing in mind the importance of airport infrastructure as a catalyst for economic growth, Foreign Direct Investment and development globally, this administration decided to prioritise the completion and delivery of five brand new international terminals, which were at 11% completion level when we came into power in 2015. Buhari also disclosed that his administration was committed to delivering the Abuja second runway, directing the minister of finance to source funds for the completion of the project even as he charged the FCT Minister to conclude the titling of the approved 12,000 hectares of land to accommodate the runway and other developmental projects. Minister of Aviation, Senator Sirika disclosed that the terminal has 66 check-in counters, five baggage collection carousels, 16 Immigration desks at arrival, 28 at departure, eight security screening points, six-passenger boarding bridges with remote boarding and arrival. Other facilities include two food courts, four premium lounges, 22 guest rooms and spars, 16 airline ticketing offices, visa on arrival and port health facility, praying areas, more than 3,000sqm duty-free spaces and over 5,000sqm let-table utility spaces. On the proposed concession to which he was directed to fast-track by the president,  the minister said it has reached an advanced stage, adding that the ministry will be issuing Request for Proposal (RFP) to the shortlisted firms before the end of March. “We expect to announce a partner in 2nd Quarter 2022 and handover by 4th Quarter 2022,” he said. Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Nigeria, H.E Cui Jianchun said the new airport terminal would elevate the global image of Nigeria.