 The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on Monday, inaugurated a Toyota-certified service centre in the Oshodi end of the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, Lagos. The state-of-the-art facility, built by Toyota Nigeria Limited, comprises a standard showroom, a collision repair centre, a general repair workshop and a spare parts warehouse. Osinbajo stated that with the level of sophistication and deployment of modern technology at the facility, the centre stands out as an achievement that would contribute immensely to the development of the auto industry and the nation’s economy. He said, “I must confess to being quite fascinated by the multiple resources and outcomes that this facility possesses and is designed to achieve. “It is not merely a service centre for providing quality after-sale service (although we are told that is one of the objectives for establishing it), it is actually developed as a teaching, research and resource centre to provide dealers with world-class, practical hands-on training.” The VP said the capacity-building aspect of the facility aligns with a number of skill acquisition and empowerment schemes of the federal government for young Nigerians. He commended the TNL team led by its chairman, Chief Michael Ade Ojo, for the visionary project. “We must all be proud of the achievements of Toyota Nigeria in the past decades. Toyota is by far Nigeria’s favourite car. “It came to be so because of the foresight, commitment to high values and focused investments of Chief Michael Ade-Ojo, OON, the founder and visioner of this foremost automotive enterprise, starting over 50 years ago with the establishment of Elizade Motors.” The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, said the establishment of the centre showed the commitment of Toyota Nigeria towards addressing the concerns of its consumers. “Today’s event is a brilliant manifestation of the enabling business environment created by this administration and their unparalleled leadership,” he said. The minister also said, “Nobody hopes for a collision or looks forward to repairing their car but when these challenges do arise, knowing that there is a place that one can take one’s car to, and it will be operated on by the manufacturer gives consumers peace of mind.” He reiterated the ministry’s commitment to complementing the efforts of Toyota Nigeria in reviving the auto sector. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folasade Jaji, said the establishment of the centre was a clear statement of Toyota Nigeria’s commitment to the continuous growth of the company. The chairman of TNL, Chief Michael Ade Ojo, described the event as memorable and one that gave him fulfilment. The Managing Director of TNL, Mr Kunle Ade-Ojo, said following the movement of the corporate headquarters of the TNL to Lekki, Lagos in 2009, the company decided to convert the old office to a standard after-sale centre.