The chairman of the FCT Universal Basic Education Board,  Dr. Alhassan Sule, has told stakeholders in the education sector that keeping children at home as a result of strike is more expensive and dangerous to the society. He spoke in Abuja yesterday in an exclusive interview with our City & Crime, in which he also called on the three area council chairmen, where teachers of primary schools are still on strike, to help resolve the matter in the interest of the pupils. He also appealed to the striking teachers to embrace dialogue and return to class in the interest of the pupils. “When you leave children at home because of strike, you tend to spend more and they can start to learn certain habits while roaming around,” he said. On the strike, he said, the FCT Administration did not owe any teacher any salary, adding that it is expected that such attitude is replicated at the area council level, being the third tier of government. “At the heat of the strike, I intervened, but the teachers told me that the area council chairmen were not accessible for dialogue and you know when that is lacking, the only language the union understands is strike. “We thank God that Gwagwalada, Abaji and AMAC chairmen have reached a common ground with the teachers and they have called off the strike. The remaining three council chairmen, Bwari, Kuje and Kwali, should cue in and help resolve the crisis for the teachers to return to classes.” The UBEB boss said the FCT, being a centre of governance, usually attracts an influx of people and their family members who also will have to enroll their wards in schools. “Parents living in neighbouring states of Niger, Kaduna and Nasarawa usually prefer to enroll their wards in FCT schools close them, so also people running from war zones. “All these are adding to the pressure on infrastructure in our schools,” he said. Dr Sule said as a result of the influx of people and the consequent pressure on FCT schools, there has been shortage of teachers, adding, however, that the FCT Administration would soon approve the employment of more staff for schools. He also said the board would soon establish what he called smart schools which are technology-based teaching and learning environment. On security, the chairman said the FCT Administration is paying close attention to securing schools through the building of parameter fences, engaging relevant stakeholders in communities to help in the area of security, which include engaging vigilantes to man the schools as well as vigilance on people moving in and out of the schools. The chairman urged the parents to invest in their children by providing them with functional education.