The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said the emergence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) would worsen corruption and economic hardship in the country. In his acceptance speech during his swearing-in yesterday in Abuja, after his emergence at the APC convention as national chairman, Adamu said, “As we conclude this very successful convention of our great party, I know that our opponents in PDP and other opposition parties are now sulking, wearing long faces of sadness, bewilderment and dismay. “They had been hoping and praying to make a fortune out of our misfortunes. They were also hoping and praying to capitalise on assumed failures of our party to reap political benefits.” But reacting, the PDP in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, described the convention as a “jamboree of lies, celebration of illegality, corruption and arrogance in failure.” The leading opposition party also alleged that Senator Adamu was imposed on party members by President Muhammadu Buhari. “It is clear that with the combination of the corrupt, deceitful and rudderless Buhari-led APC government and the illegitimate Abdullahi Adamu-led party leadership, corruption, economic hardship and rudderlessness in the APC government will worsen in our country in the remaining one year of the APC administration. “The composition of the APC national leadership is a clear confirmation that President Buhari has never been committed to the fight against corruption as well as his willingness to further open our national vaults to ravenous treasury looters in the APC. “Moreover, it was appalling to see APC leaders come out one after the other at their national jamboree to spew out lies and false performance claims on the economy, infrastructure and security even in the face of biting economic hardship, high cost of living, excruciating fuel emergency, lingering crisis in the education sector and escalated insecurity that was happening real-time and simultaneously when the ridiculous claims of achievement were being made. “Is it not shameful that while APC leaders were lying on stage in Abuja, terrorists were busy attacking the Kaduna International Airport, located in an APC controlled state?” the PDP queried.