The Changan Star 9 Bus has debuted in Nigeria to combat the menace of unsafe mini commercial buses. This mini bus is described as “a genuine and tropicalized alternative,” which has come to ease the pain of commercial drivers. Known as Changan Star 9, its body language is that of a rescue mission. Characterized with safety, body strength, practicality and powerful engine with fuel efficiency, Changan Star 9 is positioned to be a game changer in the nation’s mini buses segment marketed by Zahav Automobile Co., Nigeria’s official representative of Changan automobile brand. Body Strength Changan was taken through integrated stamping technology (a process of making sheets or plates of different thicknesses into the desired shape by mechanical stamping or ramming and does not change the thickness of the original material during the manufacturing process). As a result, the minibus comes with improved steel formality and body strength. It has a dimension of 4430 mm long, 1655 mm wide with a height of 1935 mm. It also comes with a body held in place by panels made with integral stamping technology, which means an improved torsion resistance. This means the torsion strength is superb and in the course of driving, one can clearly feel a sense of heaviness from the inside out. Comfort/Space The Changan Star 9 is magically spacious with versatile sitting formations. It was described as a “spacious multiple-seater.” Changan Star 9 is not only roomier than its peers; it offers multiple seating arrangements for 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 passengers, thereby maximizing space efficiency. For instance, its middle row of seats, which comes with a simple adjuster, can be completely flattened. Its rear seats also come with flexible and simple adjusters, thereby making it easy to adjust the load space according to the needs of the passenger or load. Power The Star 9 minibus is powered by the highly reliable 1.5L I4, MPI gasoline, 14G15S engine mated to a traditional 5-speed manual gearbox. The engine produces a maximum output of 82 kW at 6000 rpm and maximum torque of 130 Nm at 5000 rpm. Therefore, in addition to excellent power performance, Star 9 also combines reliability and efficiency into one clever package. Equipment Star 9 comes with a two-colour central control panel, which gives occupants a comfortable visual experience. It is also equipped with front-row electric windows, classic round knob air conditioner adjustment, storage compartments, lockers, and two user-friendly cupholders, among others. In a statement, the Changan representative said, “Aside from being powered by a highly reliable and efficient 1.5L I4, MPI gasoline, 14G15S engine, the Star 9 parades a strong body and ruggedness combined with affordability, all of which make it the best choice for the nation’s small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and logistic concerns. “Also, the said qualities position the bus as an excellent alternative for the nation’s commercial transporters, especially those who had over the years invested their hard-earned money on unsafe buses amateurishly knitted together by the unlicensed ghost auto assemblers.” 