A mother of two, Elizabeth Abu,   has been ordered by the  Upper Area Court sitting in Lokoja to be  remanded  in the custody of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) till March 22. Abu was arrested in Lokoja for inflicting burns on her five-year-old stepson, David Mathew Ewongolu, for cutting his own cloth to make a duster. The presiding judge, Mopa A. M, granted the order to enable the police conclude investigation on abuse and maltreatment levied against the suspect. This followed A March 15 exparte application filed by the police prosecuting counsel, Musa Saidat, yesterday. The prosecution cited sections 291 and 292, Administration of Criminal Justice Law 2017, and sought an order to remand the suspect at CID facility. The prosecuting police officer supported her exparte order with 7 paragraph affidavit deposed to by one Inspector Ubana Ibe. Kogi State Government had ordered the arrest of the woman on Monday when it got wind of the life-threatening maltreatment of the young boy, a class two pupil in LEA Primary School in Lokoja. City & Crime learnt that Governor Yahaya Bello had instructed the Commissioner, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajiya Fatima Kabir Buba, to take the case up immediately and ensure that justice is done over the cruel act. Narrating his ordeal, the minor said he received the injuries on his buttock from a whipping he got from his stepmother for using part of his cloth to make a duster. He said despite his pleadings, the woman kept beating him with the cane until his buttock got lacerated and developed sores. Our correspondent gathered that the boy may have been instructed to change the account to cane whipping, as many confirmed that they were burns from an electric iron. The woman, Elizabeth Abu, who is married to Ewongolu Emmanuel and said to be living in the Barracks area of Lokoja with her husband, was reported to have confessed to the crime, and asked for forgiveness, saying she did not intend to inflict such pain on the boy. The Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development Commissioner, Hajiya Fatima Kabir Buba, expressed shock and sadness over the incident She said the boy is currently receiving treatment at the Kogi State Specialist Hospital, Lokoja, promising to expedite action on the matter, in collaboration with the state police commissioner to ensure that the law takes its course. 