A political group, Abubakar Saraki Contact and Advocacy Council are in Bayelsa State to woo the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)’s delegates to support a former Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, to become the party’s candidate for the 2023 presidential election. The group, led by a second republic Senator and a former minister, Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher, told PDP leadership and delegates in Bayelsa State during their consultative visit on Wednesday that with Bukola Saraki as the party’s presidential candidate and president of the country, Nigeria’s problems will be surmountable. Hagher said that Nigeria is currently suffering because of lack of good leadership, urging PDP delegates to vote for Saraki during the party’s primary in order to get a solution to the lack of leadership in the country. According to him, South-South and South-West have benefited from the zoning arrangement, pleading with party faithful to stand by the North Central in order to also benefit from the arrangement. He said: “The problem of Nigeria is not that we lack security and we cannot sleep in our homes with our eyes closed. “The problem of Nigeria is lack of leadership. We do not have a leader to make the country great. “In this coming dispensation, join other Nigerians to anoint Bukola Saraki as president. “Saraki will make Nigeria a country of our dream. 2023, we must produce the calibre of leaders that will be respected across the world.” Also speaking, Prince Olateru Lekan decried the security situation in Nigeria under APC,  adding that Nigeria’s economy is suffering because of inefficiencies. He said: “We are in a serious problem in Nigeria and if care is not taken, God forbid, we may not have Nigeria three years from now. “That is why we have come to tell you that we need a president that can be a Nigerian president, not a regional president, the president that can provide solution to these problems that we are facing. “Dr Bokula Saraki is the one when it come to age, between the old and the young, he is in between. “You will be proud of him. If you talk about competence, two-time governor two-time senator, a medical doctor, he is well respected globally,” he said. The Chairman of PDP in Bayelsa State, Mr Solomon Agwana, said the country is in serious need of responsible government, saying Saraki is a competent leader who had contributed to the growth and development of democracy in Nigeria.