Former Senate President Bukola Saraki has linked the ascension of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to power to the mistakes made by the now opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Saraki’s position was espoused by the leader of his Presidential Advocacy Campaign Council, Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher, when he led his delegation to Dutse on a consultative visit to the PDP stakeholders in Jigawa state. He said the only option left for the PDP was to work towards reclaiming the leadership of the country at the centre to bring about the much- desired change to the country. The former Senate President is one of the contenders for the presidency in 2023, along side former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar and Sokoto state Governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, among others. Hagher, a former senator and former Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Canada and Mexico said, “We are convinced that Nigeria deserves a leader to that can unite it. “We are aware and very concerned of the situation of the country of the situation of the Nigerian state as it is today, where our unity has been bastardized, one could say is at the near brink. “In Bukola Saraki, we have a president, whose agenda is make Nigeria a great country, where our diversity will be celebrated and no it to be seen as a curse, where tribal or other primordial differences would be a source of suspicion among Nigerians.” He regretted that because of the weaknesses of the PDP in 2015, Nigerians voted for the APC, which had no concrete agenda for the country, adding, “APC could never have dreamt of coming to power if PDP members had not broken it’s ranks and went to join other groups that came together to take power. “They have taken power and we can now see that they have nothing and agenda except that they have shown the brutality of power against the citizens of the country. “Today, nobody is safe, nobody is celebrating because we are the poverty capital of the world under the APC administration, we are a country with the highest out-of-school children, where our future looks very bleak.”