Chief James Onanefe Ibori, a former governor of Delta State, has unveiled his preferred choice for the seat currently occupied by Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege. While unveiling Chief Ighoyota Amori, Chairman of a pressure group, Delta Central 23, as his choice for Delta Central Senatorial district in 2023, the strongman of Delta politics said those planning to conspire against him will be disgraced. Ibori said this in his country home in Mosogar, Ethiope West Local Government Area of Delta, while declaring his support for Amori. He said as a stakeholder in PDP and Urhobo nation, he should have a say on who becomes what in his senatorial district. Ibori said: “I am behind and I will support Senator Ighoyota Amori every step on the way. And anybody, anyone conspiring, anybody that thinks that because I am now a former governor they want to conspire to disgrace me, God will disgrace all of them. “This is not issue of money. All mothers should call their children to order. This is my Senatorial District. “I am a stakeholder in this party (PDP) and I am a stakeholder in Urhobo. This is my place of birth. “I am with Senator Amori all the way. I want to assure that if you give Senator Amori your support, he will not disappoint you. I want to guarantee you that Senator Amori will perform beyond expectation because we know his capacity, we know his reach, he has contact and knows how to use it and that seat befits Amori. “So let support him. Please, join hands with me. Support him to go to the Senate. I know that some of you from your various houses will probably be thinking. Please have a rethink, I am begging of you. Ibori is begging you and you are refusing? Please, support me to send Senator Ighoyota Amori to the Senate. I want to say it again that this senatorial race, this Senator Amori’s bid is my bid. Please join hands with me and join hands with Senator Amori to go to the Senate.” Ibori, who left power in 2007, was convicted and served a jail sentence, but this did not diminish his influence in Delta as his preferred candidates have governed the state from that time till now. While in UK prison, reports had it that politicians from the state flew over there to consult with him.