All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship Aspirant, Mr Mohammed Sani Abdullahi (Dattijo), has urged members of the Kaduna State House of Assembly to support him in sustaining the laudable achievements of Mallam Nsir El-rufai. Dattijo, who was at the Luggard Hall to declare his intention, while appreciating the state lawmakers for advancing the cause of Kaduna State by giving government reform efforts the required legislative support, said that it is imperative that the progress and achievements of the APC in the last seven years are not reversed or derailed. The Commissioner for Budget and Planning said that his interest in the 2023 governorship election is fuelled by the desire to guarantee continuity in governance, especially in the area of evolving development in the State. “The journey of progress started by Governor El-rufai is one we must sustain since governance is a never-ending process. “We must secure all that His Excellency has been able to achieve under the platform of the APC as a reform-minded political party. “As we gradually come close to the end of the trailblazing administration of Gov. El-rufai, our immediate task is to ensure that the progress and achievements of the APC in the last seven years are not reversed or derailed. “I believe that only continuity will guarantee that Kaduna will match forward with the determined leadership it has witnessed under the APC,” he told the lawmakers. The former Chief of Staff to Gov. El-Rufai said he has been privileged to learn from the governor and understudy the thinking behind every policy intervention and decision of the APC government. He stressed that he is putting himself forward based on the need to ensure the continuity of excellent performance witnessed in the last seven years. While soliciting the support of the lawmakers for his candidacy, Dattijo said he is willing to abide by the decision of the governor and the leadership of the party. “The world is changing and Kaduna needs to innovate on the existing reforms of our leader to make our state work for everyone synthesizing on the gains of building a self-sufficient, secured technology capital in Northern Nigeria. “The choice we have to make in the upcoming elections will determine the trajectory of our dear State, not just for our generation but for the generation after us,” he added. Dattijo was recently appointed an associate and founding member of Dunning Africa Center by the prestigious Henley Business School, University of Reading, United Kingdom.