The daughter of the former Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, has described Arabs as racists. Shahida Sanusi, who is married and currently living in Saudi Arabia with her husband,  stated this during a question-and-answer session on her personal Instagram account. Someone had asked, “{I} heard Arabs are racists, have you ever been a victim of it in KSA?” Responding in the affirmative, Shadiha shared first-hand experiences of racism that she has had in the kingdom. “To be honest, they are. Yes. I have but it mostly had to do with my daughter (personally don’t go out much or interact with them enough to know). But definitely have experienced racism, even in the mosque and the playground in front of our house. Even in my daughter’s school, she was one of the only 2 black kids; so at first I didn’t think it was racism I realised later on. It’s crazy. Don’t get me started on stories I’ve heard from people I know. “Oh wait, even our ‘Haris’ like the gate man was racist to us when we first came. He wouldn’t even answer Salam. It was insane,” she said. While responding to another question which wanted to know if the process of enrolling non-Arab kids in school in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was hard, the mother of three responded that she hadn’t personally had such experience, but she knew a case of something close to that. “Honestly, I haven’t had that experience and I haven’t heard of anyone that has. But I know a case where they tested a student (3-year-old) and said they could only give a conditional offer because she didn’t know colours.” “I thought it was strange but when the parents called them out on it, they changed and enrolled her. So maybe they wanted to save the slot for an Arab,” she said. Shahida, who is as outspoken as her father, made the news in 2017 when she represented him at the inaugural Chibok Girls’ lecture held by the Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) group. Shahida, who delivered Sanusi’s speech at the event in Abuja, said her representing the emir would be the first time a non-title holder or woman would do so in the north. Earlier, the emir in a video message to the group, said he chose his daughter to represent him at the event because of her passion for gender issues. He said his daughter once slapped a boy for disrespecting her.