The Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) has called for the implementation of the Designated Export Warehouse (DEW) project to end multiple cargo examination and boost the nation’s export volumes. The PEBEC Secretary and Special Adviser to the President on Ease of Doing Business, Dr. Jumoke Oduwole, made the call on Monday in Abuja, at a session on the Midway National Action Plan (NAP) 7.0. She said that the session was pivotal for the trajectory of the 7th iteration of the 60 days accelerator NAP 7.0, especially on the progress of the non-agro and agro export plans. She said that the essence NAP 7.0 was to ensure increase volume of exports and volume of foreign exchange in the country. “The report will also enhance Ministry Department and Agencies (MDAs) efficiency and transparency requirements as directed by Executive Order 1 (EO1) in 2017,” she said. On his part, PEBEC Technical Lead, Mr. David Uzosike, while presenting the NAP 7.0 Agro-Export Reforms Midway Progress Report, said that the implementation of DEW project will also encourage priority and free movement of designated export container laden trucks. He said that the move will also lead to drastic reduction in current time for export cargo examination as well as congestion at the terminals and create space for new containers. “A reform in the payment and verification process will boost Forex inflow from export if exporters have unfettered access to the foreign exchange proceeds earned by them. It was also pertinent to extend privileges given to Diaspora remittance to have free access to their foreign exchange,” he said. Uzosike, who stressed the need to allow exporters have free access to their foreign exchange, also called for increase in volume of exports regulators to work with terminal operators to prioritize exports and enhance process efficiency. He called for the audit and streamlining of current physical inspection process for agro-exports, publish and enforce official timeline to reduce drastically the current time for export cargo examination. The NAP 7.0 seeks to intensify efforts at improving travel experience at the nation’s airports and to strengthen the automation of the business incorporation process of the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC). At the end of the 60-day window, it is expected that MSMEs will experience an enhanced trademark registration process, with vast improvements in the tracking and evaluation of MDAs’ compliance with the directives of the Executive Order 01 (EO1). The PEBEC chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, with the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment as Vice Chair also consists of 13 key ministers, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), the Head of Service and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). The PEBEC also has expanded membership high-level representation from the National Assembly; the Judiciary, and state governments (Lagos and Kano) and a private sector representative among others.