The presidential ambition of the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Wednesday received a boost following endorsement by the House of Representatives caucus of the party. The former Lagos governor was accompanied to the National Assembly by dozens of supporters and loyalists, including former senators Iyiola Omisore, Abu Ibrahim and Adedayo Adeyeye. Meanwhile, even as the House of Representatives members endorsed him, their counterparts at the Senate wished him well. The APC caucus in the House of Representatives gave an overwhelming voice vote to express their endorsement for Tinubu’s presidential aspiration after the House Leader, Ado Doguwa, put the question to them. Doguwa, while speaking during the visit, said Tinubu has paid his dues and that it was time to support him to actualise his lifetime ambition. He added that Tinubu has helped many Nigerians to achieve their life ambitions by becoming governors, senators, House of Representatives members and occupying other positions. Doguwa said, “Senator Tinubu has paid his dues. It’s payback time. It is time to support him to achieve his lifetime ambition. I want to say that you are the only one we know and you are the only one we will support. I want to say that Bola Ahmed Tinubu has everything it takes to be president of Nigeria.” Earlier, Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila said Bola Tinubu needs no introduction as he and like minds put APC together and ensured its victory in the 2015 and 2019 elections as well as its progress. He added that Tinubu had travelled far and wide across Nigeria to meet and consult with other Nigerians in his drive to consolidate the gains of democracy and deliver his message. The Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase, described Tinubu as an enigma and seasoned democrat who has impacted the political space in the country through all odds. We wish you well in your enterprise — APC senators At the Red Chamber, the meeting was attended by over 30 APC senators, including a presidential aspirant, Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia). On their part, APC senators wished the former Lagos governor well in his “enterprise.” Senate President Ahmad Lawan, who spoke on behalf of the senators, said the caucus appreciated the enormous contribution Tinubu made in the formation and sustenance of APC. He commended the courage of Tinubu in his endeavour, saying “we wish you well in your enterprise and we are with you in the course of making APC survive as a party.” Lawan assured that the party’s caucus in the Senate would continue to remain united to ensure the success of the President Buhari administration. He also explained that external factors were mainly responsible for the social and economic challenges the country has been facing since the APC took over power in 2019. I’m the best product you can sell –Asiwaju Tinubu said he was at the parliament to seek the lawmakers’ “counsel, partnership and support”, adding that he has the “capacity and experience” to lead the country. The APC leader said his presidential ambition was not blind to step on the toes of President Muhammadu Buhari, but that he intends to step into the shoes of the president in 2023. He said, “Why am I here? I came for your counsel, partnership and support. Nigeria has come to that stage where we need a change of baton. Mr President is rounding off his second term. “Election is coming up in February. We have various programmes that I don’t have to restate here; nomination process, primary process and all of that. I can’t do it by myself and I can’t do it by sitting at home, expecting that many personal friends that I have here will do it for me. “I believe jointly, we can do it. You can back me successfully for the nomination of my lifetime ambition. “If the counsel of wise men is anything to go by, ‘if you want to go fast, do it alone, but if you want to get there successfully, definitely, go with a team’. I’m asking for that teamsmanship here today. “Get me over the hump of the nomination process and from that, get me to the presidency of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “I want to beg you to look at my capacity and experience. I’m just an unusual candidate in this period. I’m perhaps the only one who had been in the Senate, had been governor and is aspiring to become president. “By pushing me over the hump when you support me vigorously, you have created a greater power that will pave the way for Nigeria’s progress.” He said Nigeria would remain united if he was elected president and “we will use that unity, the symbol of our party to cleanse Nigeria of unrealisable potential.” By Abdullateef Salau, Itodo Daniel Sule & Balarabe Alkassim