 The Ogun State Government has, through the Agricultural and Multipurpose Credit Agency (OSAMCA), disbursed N850 million to 22,000 entrepreneurs across the state. Governor Dapo Abiodun disclosed this at the opening of the 11th Gateway International Trade Fair with the theme: “Harnessing the Agricultural Value Chain for Sustainable Industrial Development”, organised by the Ogun State Chamber of Commerce, Mines and Agriculture (OGUNCCIMA) at the MKO Abiola Trade Fair Complex, Abeokuta. God Abiodun said his administration had been facilitating capital for small businesses, with the launch of Business Premises Permit to improve the ease of doing business, the inauguration of the Business Environment Council to promote and facilitate trade, as well as create an avenue for renowned entrepreneurs to seamlessly float their respective businesses in the state. He added that the government also organised the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) business clinic across the state which had helped 10,000 enterprises with capital, linked and aided businesses to become formalised and also encouraged export. The governor hinted that the fair was an opportunity to explore the agricultural and industrial sectors to further sustain the state’s economy, saying the automation of business permit launched in 2021 was to improve the state’s ease of doing business as it saved time, increased the state’s revenue and reduced leakages. According to Abiodun, Ogun has been selected as one of the states in the country for the implementation of the Special Agro Processing-Industrial Zone supported by the African Finance Development Bank, International Fund for Agricultural Development and the federal government, maintaining that the zone to be based at the Agro-Cargo Airport at Ilishan-Remo would process agriculture produce before they were exported. The governor commended OGUNCCIMA for its positive impact in promoting trade and investments and for being a rallying point for traders and buyers, pledging that his administration would assist the body to increase the level of commercial and industrial activities in the state. Speaking at the occasion, commissioner for industry, trade and investment, Mrs Kikelomo Longe, noted that the fair would impact positively on MSMEs by offering market opportunities and a platform for networking among entrepreneurs. On his part, her counterpart in agriculture, Dr Adeola Odedina, stated that the present administration had transformed the state’s agricultural sector and supported farmers to produce raw materials and linked them with industries. Earlier, in his welcome address, president of OGUNCCIMA, Alhaji Wasiu Olaleye, said the event which would come to a close on Monday, April 4, 2022, was part of effort to raise the agricultural and industrial profile of the state, in addition to various initiatives of the government, including the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) policy.