The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Allied People’s Movement (APM) on Monday in Abuja suspended six national officers and three state chairmen for misconduct and anti-party activities. National Secretary of the APM, Oyadeyi Ayodele Adebayo, said this on Tuesday in Abuja at the end of the NWC meeting of the party. He listed those affected as, the National Treasurer, Mrs. Rose Gyar; National Financial Secretary, Nadir Baba; National Publicity Secretary, Muktar Sidi; National Welfare Officer, Abubakar Ahmed; and National Youth leader, Felix Idowu. Others are Vice Chairman South East, Rowland Inyama; Chairman Kaduna State Chapter, Nuhu Soba; Chairman Nasarawa State Chapter, Abram Gyabo; and Chairman Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Thomas Akosu. Adebayo said that the suspended officers of the party held a kangaroo meeting and appointed the former national treasurer, Mrs. Rose Gyar as the acting national Chairman of the party in flagrant violation of APM constitution registered with INEC. “Article 10(7) of the party constitution provides that, “Two-third majority of the Executive Committee at all levels shall form a quorum” for any meeting at the instance of the national Chairman. Only six out of 20 members of the National Working Committee attended the purported meeting. It is obvious that any decision taken in the meeting was null and void and of no effect whatsoever in the operations of our great party. “The NWC has set up a 3-man disciplinary Committee which has Barr. Ken Ikeh as Chairman, Hafsat Usman, secretary and Kalu Njoku member, to investigate the allegations, petitions and anti-party activities against the suspended officers and report back to the NWC in two weeks,” he said. The communique said that the NWC reaffirmed the vote of confidence passed on the National Chairman, Alhaji Yusuf Mamman Dantalle by the National Executive Committee (NEC) in its meeting held on 5th February 2022, in Abuja. He said, “NWC is aware of external forces that want to destabilize the party ahead of the 2023 general election. The party remains focused in its determination to win future elections and has released its timetable and guidelines for the 2023 general election duly acknowledged and published by INEC.”