 The senator representing Kano North Senatorial District, Barau Jibrin, has declared his intention to contest the Kano State governorship election in 2023. Jibrin, who is also a member of the G-7 faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC), also unveiled his campaign committee yesterday. A former deputy governor of Kano State, Prof. Hafiz Abubakar, was appointed as the campaign director and chairman of the central committee alongside 10 members. Similarly, a 17-man committee was unveiled across the three senatorial districts in the state, as well a 27-man committee to oversee the campaign across the 44 local government areas. Members of the committee include women as well as representation from people with special needs. The lawmaker, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriations, thanked members of the committee for their sacrifices, just as he charged them to work closely with the campaign director to succeed in the party’s primaries. In his acceptance speech, Prof. Abubakar said the committee would soon inaugurate other subcommittees that would include social media influencers, student associations and the business community. “We will soon unveil a reach-out strategy for the Barau Jibrin’s campaign that will involve going to the grassroots, business communities, religious leaders and associations. “You all are free to start soliciting for support in respect of the candidacy of Senator Barau Jibrin,” he said. Meanwhile, the Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Safety and Administration Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Yusuf Jamoh, has commenced consultation for his Kaduna governorship ambition. Jamoh said the action was part of his home training to seek the blessing of elders, friends and cronies before embarking on any project. Speaking during a gathering at his community, Anguwar Juma in Zaria, Kaduna, the Director-General said his people had been yearning for his return to the state to serve humanity. Jamoh, who was received by the Waziri and Chief Imam of Zazzau, Khadi Mohammed Aminu and Sheikh Dalhat Kasim respectively, was eulogized for his record of achievements at NIMASA. He then proceeded to visit the Emir of Zazzau, Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli, for royal blessings. Speaking shortly after the visit, Jamoh told newsmen that he would make his position known after consultations.