There were mixed reactions over the ongoing distribution of cash to elderly men and women, youths and children by the Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, Yusuf Ibrahim Zailani. Videos have gone viral showing the speaker doling out cash to a mammoth crowd of men, women and children who lined up at his Rigachikun home in Kaduna. An accompanying text on the video by the speaker’s fans stated that the cash distribution which commenced on April 2, 2022, will last till April 9, 2022. One of the videos showed Zailani himself giving out what appeared to be between N1,000 and N2,000 cash in minted N200 notes to hundreds of men who had lined up, amongst them, the elderly. Another video showed a mammoth crowd of elderly and middle-aged women who struggled to penetrate his home but were being barricaded by youths who urged them to act orderly. Zailani, who was seated, is seen in the video doling out money in N200 notes to each woman who showered him with praises and prayers. In another video, the speaker was seen handing out N200 notes to children of not more than 13 years who happily collected the cash and made their way out. Some of Zailani’s supporters could be heard in the video urging the boys to pray for the speaker. Many on social media who viewed the videos described Zailani as the only politician in Kaduna who was concerned about the masses and ready to do something about it. They stated that his occasional assistance was aimed at ameliorating the suffering of the masses. However, some people berated the speaker who is also the Chairman, Northern Speakers Forum for sharing N200 to children with Safi Ahmed, a Facebook user saying, “May Allah guard Nigerians against poverty. He is supposed to pay their school fees not to share N200 because of political interest.” Malam Doka, another Facebook user said, “what legislation have they brought to ensure Nigerian children are protected? The North will remain backwards if this continues.” However, the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the speaker, Ibrahim Danfulani, said the charity is what the speaker does almost on monthly basis to people in need, irrespective of where they come from. He said the speaker had been upset when he discovered that he had been captured on video which was released to the public.