The TradelandFx Nigeria has said that it would be donating 2.5 percent of its yearly income to charity. The organisation, a global forex trading platform, also said it plans to create over 2,000 job opportunities in the financial sector by 2024 after recently joining the financial space. The organisation said this weekend in Abuja during the launching of its office to herald the commencement of operations in Nigeria. The Business Development Manager of TradelandFx, Sophia Gemal, told newsmen that the gesture was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility and also intend to train and equip Nigerian women with requisite knowledge on how to create generational wealth. “We will be going to rural areas, such as the southern and the northern region to empower women and by doing this, we will provide workshops and financial aids to women who want to work and create wealth for themselves as well as generations. “And part of the charity will be the donation of working equipment such as farm tools, sewing machines among others and other aspects will be going into the educational sector where we will be providing computers to children who want to go into basic computer skill sets and also be sourcing diligent tutors to mentor them,” Gemal said. The organisation as part of its marketing campaign also announced its maiden edition of a bi-monthly trading contest where winners will be credited with cash prizes between $500 to $1,500. Also, Marketing manager, of the organisation, Amarachi Ugwuegbulam, said the June 2022 African financial market conference will host over 1,000 participants who will be benefiting from free financial marketing training. On her part, the Human Resource Manager, Tradelandfx, Chukwuma Amanambu, said, “We are aware of the unemployment rate which is at 33 percent, we will create jobs for people, either as an introducing broker, full-time employee, an expert trader, copy trader or as a partner. So, we are targeting 500 jobs before the end of the year and 2000 jobs by 2024.”