Hyundai Nigeria Limited has unveiled two new brands into the nation’s automotive market. They are the Santa Fe SUV and Elantra, both high-tech vehicles with improved styling, comfort, equipment and segment-leading safety features. Head of Sales and Marketing, Mr. Gaurav Vashisht, at a media launch in Lagos, described the new Santa Fe as a product of continuous research into making Hyundai vehicles safer and more comfortable for customers. Unlike its predecessor, he said the new Santa Fe provides ample seating for a family of seven and elevated the elegantly styled, high-technology SUV to another level, leading to a significant improvement in collision safety and maximizing vehicle stability on top of larger interior space. He said, “Hyundai Santa Fe has made a brilliant start to the new year, gaining wide recognition by top tier global automotive awards; winning top titles in Kelley Blue Book Best Buy Award, Large SUV of the Year at 2022 What Car? Award, and US News 2022 Best Car for the Money, affirming the Santa Fe as an innovative choice among large SUVs in combining family convenience with an adventurous, unrivalled presence on the road.” In addition, the Santa Fe has been successful in combining the quality and value measures as a modern-day SUV. The New Santa Fe, coming to 2022 with a refreshed design from the exterior and interior, also has an array of other novelty features and an enhanced dynamic driving experience, providing the balance of optimal performance and comfort, giving the driver the choice of driving modes that suit every road or driving situation, ensuring an unparalleled ride experience for both the driver and the different family members. The Santa Fe also came with a bold new design, and a bouquet of “Smart Sense” safety features. It boasts a strong stance with an overall length of (mm) 4,785 mm, and a width of (mm) 1,900 mm. The 2022 Santa Fe provides a wide choice of family-oriented features, starting from flexible seat variations in the second and third-row seats and space, one-touch walk-in and folding, and a smart power tailgate. Santa Fe is among the safest in its class, receiving the maximum Five-Star safety rating from Euro NCAP safety assessment programme. Elantra The All-New, 7th generation Hyundai Elantra has undergone significant changes, delivering the most progressive in-vehicle experience in its class. Longer, wider and more aggressive than the sixth-generation model, the 2022 Elantra boasts a wide range of advanced technologies and features. It marks another step forward for the Elantra brand, which first hit the roads 30 years ago (1990). Bringing the Elantra to life is the premium finishing to both the exterior and interior, reflected through Hyundai’s ‘sensuous sportiness’ design identity. The Elantra is also equipped with an elaborative design chassis, allowing the driver to experience the sporty feel of the design. With these new improvements, the Elantra becomes the most compact sedan that the next generation wants to drive, providing better mobility experience than before. The Elantra stands out on the road with its bold style. At the front, the combination of a wide cascade grille, connected to the headlamps and a bold bumper provides a more robust front look. The parametric-pattern cascade grille across the front mask creates a futuristic look, while the sharp edge shaped bumper bottom moulding and air curtain intakes are also core features. The side of the Elantra is accentuated with its rich volume and sensual lines. The new model boasts core features including a longer hood, elegant roofline, and side character-line with sharp edges which showcase a sporty look. The Smartstream G2.0 MPI – 6-speed automatic engine, which has a maximum power of 159ps/6,200rpm and a maximum torque of 19.5kg.m/4,500rpm, is an improved fuel-efficient engine. The Gamma 1.6 MPI (127.5ps/6,300rpm and 15. 77kg.m/4,850rpm) is also available, offering a smoother performance. With Hyundai continuing to focus on safety innovation, the Elantra is equipped with a wide range of features that aim to protect passengers.