Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has told his counterpart in Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, that he will lose the presidential election in 2023 but end up as a “good loser”. Ganduje said this when Wike paid him a visit in Kano late Monday as part of his (Wike) consultations for the presidential ticket of his party, PDP. The Kano State governor, who did not mince words in the viral video that surfaced after their meeting, told Wike that “At the end of it (election), you will lose but you will be a good loser. “I appreciate good losers because they have the courage and since you are doing this peacefully, then you will live long to fight again. “When your opponents, when those who are fighting you describe you as ‘wicked Wike,’ I listen to the speech across the country, ashe (so) this Wike is not wicked but this Wike is the wise Wike. So, I congratulate you, the wise Wike. Thank you and God bless.” Earlier, the Rivers State governor had said he would probably have abandoned his presidential ambition if Ganduje had decided to join the race to save Nigeria. “If Ganduje is running for the presidency, some of us will quickly withdraw our ambitions, but thanks he is not running and I’m sure he will help me to make it,” Wike reportedly said. He added that party differences should not make them work against the country but come together to salvage the country. Meanwhile, Ganduje has directed his Chief of Staff, Ali Haruna Makoda, as well as three other commissioners that earlier tendered their resignation to continue carrying out their duties. The governor’s rejection of the resignations came in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, which said he accepted the resignation of seven other commissioners. The statement said the governor approved the resignation of Nasir Gawuna (who is also his deputy), Murtala Sule Garo, Ibrahim Abubakar Karaye, Mahmud Muhammad Santsi, Muntari Ishaq Yakasai, Musa Iliyasu Kwankwaso and Kabiru Ado Lakwaya as the Commissioners for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Culture and Tourism, Housing and Transport, Special Duties, Rural and Community Development, and Youth & Sports, respectively. 