Son of the late acclaimed winner of the 1993 presidential election, MKO Abiola, Kola Abiola has joined the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP). Kola, who joined the party yesterday, said he would mobilize the youths to take over power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. This is just as PRP unveiled its timetable and guidelines for the 2023 general elections yesterday. Abiola told leaders of the party and journalists that he was still consulting on whether to contest for any elective position, adding that he has already promised to mobilize the youths to support the PRP takes over power next year. According to him, he decided to choose the PRP instead of any of the two main political parties because the party was the only platform that has maintained its policy and ideology over the years. He said: “I have looked at the history of political parties in Nigeria and believed that this is the party for Nigerians. I believed in equal opportunity and I believe this party represents all the ideals that I believed in. “We have a youth population that has been cut out of the political process. The first thing I want to do is to disrupt the political process and give the true owners of Nigeria the choice for their voice to be heard. Only PRP can give them that. We will mobilize the youths to own this process and give the PRP a rebirth.” On whether he is contesting, Abiola said he will look at the structure and take the next few weeks to make the decision. “I intend to bring value to this party, to the youth, to the political system irrespective of what I decided to go for.” Speaking on the timetable for the coming elections after welcoming Abiola, the National Chairman of the PRR, Alhaji Falalu Bello said the sale of forms will commence on April 19 and ends on May 5. He also said those interested in contesting for the post of the president on the platform of the party are expected to “pay N10m, governorship N2.5m, Senate N1.5m, House of Representatives N250,000 and state assembly N100,000 “ He said that women will be given 50 per cent discount while disabled people will be given the forms free.