The Lagos State Government has appointed the sacked state chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya, popularly known as MC Oluomo, as the chairman of its parks management committee. MC Oluomo’s appointment came about a month after an initial denial of the state government to the effect that Oluomo, who is having a running battle with the national executive of the union, had been appointed. MC Oluomo’s son earlier posted the information on his Instagram handle, but deleted the post while the state government denied the appointment. The NURTW had suspended MC Oluomo over insubordination and refusal to obey the directive by its national executive led by Alhaji Tajudeen Baruwa. Just on Wednesday, the national administrative council of NURTW dissolved the Lagos council chaired by MC Oluomo thereby bringing his reign to an abrupt end. Following his suspension, the state government banned the activities of NURTW in all parks and garages in the state and promised to appoint a management committee to coordinate the activities in parks and garages. But last night, the commissioner for information and strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotosho, in a statement, said the government had set up a committee to oversee the affairs of all motor parks and garages in the state. This, he stated, was in fulfillment of the government’s promise to ensure that events in the NURTW were not allowed to threaten law and order. The commissioner said the parks management committee members were selected following consultations with stakeholders. The members of the committee are AIG Hakeem Odumosu (Rtd), government liaison officer; Alhaji Musiliu Ayinde Akinsanya, Chairman; Alhaji Sulyman B. Ojora, deputy chairman; Dr Taiwo Olufemi Salaam, secretary; Comrade Olayiwola Lemboye; Alhaji Mustapha Adekunle; Alhaji Ganiyu Shittu; Alhaji Mukaila Runsewe; Alhaji Sulyman Yusuf; Alhaji Mufutau Mutiu; Alhaji Yinka Hassan; Alhaji Sunday Ogunleye; Alhaji Moshood Omojowa; Alhaji Ismaila Aigoro; Alhaji Ibrahim Yusuf. O; Alhaji Akeem Tijani and Mrs Omolabake Adelakun. Others are Comrade Kazeem Hassan; Alhaji Wasiu Amole; Alhaji Ganiyu Ayinde; Anthony Adeyinka Adeboye; John Victor Owolabi; Saburi Salami; Ibrahim Onitiju and Odusanya Gbenga. 