Abdulrahman Sade is a politician, entrepreneur and philanthropist from Bauchi State. In this interview, he explains why the presidential aspiration of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo excites northerners.  Your mode of politics has always been the grassroots type. Is there a particular reason why you prefer this approach? Of course, the best kind of politics is local. And how much more local can you get than the grassroots approach? Now, the other important factor in that the best way for politics to affect the regular Nigerian in the most positive way possible, is when it is at its most local, it’s most grassroots-oriented. Who are the hospitals meant for, or the schools and markets? Of course, it is all for the average Nigerian. And let’s face it, any politician who is into politics and is not taking the grassroots approach to things is simply in it for himself and nobody else. What do you make of the ongoing politicking for the presidency? Some of it is good, and a lot isn’t so good. But being the incurable optimist I am, I will focus on the positives more. There seems to be more of a general awakening of the general populace when it comes to recognition and appreciation of good governance. Even a lack of good governance is noticed in a most discerning way, and ways are being devised to make sure that it doesn’t continue to be a hanging albatross on our collective necks. Even if on the negative side, a form of hardcore money politics is taking shape, a far wider-covering trend amongst the electorate is that of a deep political awareness; one which will inform voting trends and partisan alliances far more significantly than we have ever seen in this nation before. Even the media is getting into good shape, though the same cannot be said of commentators who have made it their sport to tear down candidates they for whatever reason do not like. Can you share recent examples of that? The one that comes to mind immediately is the unfair and unnecessary bashing of Prof. Yemi Osinbajo by Farooq Kperogi. If the attack was supported by facts, and not instances twisted to become ‘facts’, maybe it wouldn’t have been so obviously a calculated attack with motives beyond what we can see at the moment. You appear to have an alignment of some sort with Osinbajo. What do you think of his potential as a leader? Absolutely; what other well-meaning Nigerian who wants his/her country to rise to greatness won’t. And my reasons aren’t grand, ideological ones. They’re practical, down-to-earth ones, like the fact that he has proven himself time without number, that he is someone who delivers. Even on the few occasions, he has properly deputized for the president, his effectiveness is almost immediately felt. Prof. Osinbajo has proven himself to be a man of talent, who also sees talent in others, and builds teams of talented individuals who will serve the nation well. Don’t forget his natural charisma and ability to connect with people from all walks of life, which is an important factor in communication, and one which shows that he is a leader who truly listens to the people. And isn’t that the kind of leader we all need right now? Do you think Osinbajo’s candidature will resonate in the North? Of course, he will. From the excellent working relationship with President Muhammadu Buhari, to his visible effectiveness as a deputy who really gets work done, and his love and respect for all regions of our dear country, it’s all there, pointing to the excitement in the North of the possibility of Prof. Osinbajo as our next president. He inspires hope that we still have leaders who actually listen, and care. And let’s face it: If you’re making a list of just three solid points of reference of the Buhari administration, having Prof. Osinbajo as VP is definitely going to be one of them. Do you think the Nigerian masses and youths call him ‘Star Boy’ for nothing? He connects with them on a basic, human level, and they see in him a trustworthy man of conviction who will lead us to greater heights.