The General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Sunday said he has never been a politician and will never be one. He also denied reports that the church was mobilising for the presidential ambition of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, or any other candidate, saying his church has membership cutting across all political parties. He spoke in respect to the criticism trailing the recent creation of a department for politics and governance in the church. Many Nigerians had insinuated that the department was to canvass support for the ambition of Osinbajo who is a pastor of the church. While several groups have been making a case for Osinbajo to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari, the vice president is yet to declare his ambition. Speaking on Sunday during a service at the headquarters of the church along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Adeboye declared that 2023 is not even in his mind, saying God has not spoken to him yet if there would be an election next year. He appealed to “political jobbers” not to distract him from his pastoral calling. He reiterated that he had never asked his members to vote for a particular candidate or political party, saying membership of his church comprised members of the APC, PDP and Labour Party, among others. “I need to clear this once and for all. My assignment is to pray for you, pray for nations including Nigeria. “My assignment has nothing to do with partisan politics. Don’t distract my attention. I have never told you this is the person you should vote for. Have I ever said that to us? “I have never said this is the party you should belong to. I never said this. I will never say it because, in the Redeemed Christian Church of God, every party is heavily represented. Everyone – APC, PDP, APGA, Labour Party and some parties you don’t even know their names. “The only reason I have never voted is that if I vote for any man, I’ll be unjust to the rest of Nigerians. I am a father of all and I like it that way. All I am saying, I am saying loud and clear, as a Nigerian, every one of you, you are Nigerian before you became a Christian. “You have a duty to your country to register, to vote and to make sure that your vote is counted. You have a duty to belong to any party of your choice at the very grassroots. You can’t sit down, fold your hands and refuse to vote,” he said. He disclosed that he has a lot of things bothering him, one of which is Kaduna State which is currently boiling. According to him, in Kaduna, nobody can travel either by road, rail or by air. “Who is trying to isolate Kaduna and Why?” He asked. The clergyman also said another issue bothering him was the revelation that 80 per cent of the oil produced in Nigeria is being stolen, stating that this is worrisome. Noting that these issues bother him more than the 2023 politics, he disclosed that he would always pray for any politician who comes to him for prayer. “And I have only one prayer for them is ‘Father let your perfect will concerning this fellow be done’.”