More facts have emerged as to why the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, approved a second term ticket for the incumbent Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State. The Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC), the highest decision making organ of Lagos APC, also known as the Council of Elders, had on Sunday endorsed Sanwo-Olu for a second term, ending speculations about the fate of the governor. Unlike his predecessor, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, who fell out of favour with the leadership, Sanwo-Olu was able to scale the hurdles as he got the green light to contest for a second term under APC. Daily Trust reports that with the endorsement, the governor is expected to set his campaign machinery in motion as he may likely emerge as the consensus candidate of the party. So far, no aspirant has come out in the ruling party to vie for the governorship as chieftains of the party were reading the lips of the party’s leadership. Our correspondent reliably gathered that many aspirants were actually expecting a contrary decision from the GAC for the next line of action. Daily Trust observed that one chieftain pulled a string when he printed a poster that was pasted at different places in Lagos including the APC secretariat at Acme Road, Ikeja. Sources at the meeting said the governor was unanimously endorsed having performed to the satisfaction of the leadership of the party and played his cards very well as a loyal party man. “When it comes to loyalty, the governor has been extremely loyal to the national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and he is committed to the course of his presidential ambition,” one of the sources said. Besides, it was gathered that Tinubu’s presidential ambition was another factor considered by party elders who believed that any attempt at denying Sanwo-Olu his second term could work against Tinubu’s presidential bid by drawing the ire of other APC governors. “It was a calculated move. Don’t forget the APC governors were not happy with the treatment meted out to Ambode at that time and they even went begging Asiwaju who said it was beyond him,” he said. Speaking with our correspondent, a GAC member from the Ikorodu division, Chief Olorunfunmi Basorun, said the governor has performed beyond expectations and deserves the ticket. “The governor was in Ikorodu recently and I moved a motion that he should be endorsed for a second term and my motion was unanimously adopted. “He has done well in terms of providing infrastructure for the people, building roads, hospitals and in the area of education. So he deserves to go for another four years,” he said. 