Mikano Motors has unveiled its all-new flagship luxury Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) from its Geely Nigeria line-up, the Geely Azkarra. Following a highly successful pre-sale period, the launch event was mapped out to demonstrate the beauty, luxury, and surprising power of the Azkarra SUV. This was the third in the line-up since the partnership between Geely and Mikano was birthed about three years ago. At the unveiling ceremony at the Geely showroom in Lagos, the commendable accomplishments of the Mikano-Geely partnership were shared, with emphasis on the Mikano Motors value chain and the opportunities it has provided in deepening the availability of brand new vehicles in the Nigerian market. The General Manager, Mikano Motors, Ralph Haidar, explained that Mikano Motors offers the best value for car purchases currently obtainable in Nigeria, including the five-year/150,000-kilometre warranty, mobile workshop, VIP courtesy service, guaranteed resale value and the confidence from Mikano International’s legacy quality, after-sales prowess, assurance for peace of mind and overall, the best value for your auto investment. Geely’s Head of Design, Shanghai-Guy Burgoyne, while analysing the design process for the Azkarra, described the steps taken from ideation to the production of the distinguished Azkarra as “sophisticated, practical, intuitive, and technically precise”. According to him, Azkarra was designed with the car owners in mind, identifying that “the consumers’ choice of cars is becoming their choice of lifestyle rather than just a tool for transportation”. He stated that the accentuated headlamps, deep-set into the body colour inserts, give the Azkarra a matured look that conveys great confidence and the exterior was designed to improve aerodynamic performance. He said, “This refined, sleek attribute transitions to the interior with a self-assured fluidity, successfully merging sportiness and refinement. “The cockpit is wrapped in lush Nappa leather, with translucent backlit wood patterns providing adjustable ambient lighting that emotively matches the driver’s and passenger’s mood. The user interfaces as found in the Azkarra’s “humanised” interior complement Geely’s innovative 48V EMS mild- hybrid system.” Also, the performance of Azkarra’s innovative 48V EMS (Electric Motor Synergy) was described in an explainer video. It details when in certain driving modes, the system improves the acceleration dynamics of the car, due to additional torque (+50Nm) and also provides up to 15% improved fuel economy. Overall, the EMS of the Luxury Geely Azkarra provides the car with a distinctly smooth ride, more power, and a substantially improved fuel economy. The luxury Geely Azkarra SUV was subsequently unveiled officially by the GM- Mikano announced a limited-time launch offer. The Azkarra has an immediate charismatic appeal at the first glance, with an elegant and sophisticated carriage. The grille features the signature “expanding cosmos” design, much like the Coolray, but somehow managing to look more mature on the Azkarra. The rear is simple, yet distinct and beautiful in its simplicity. The interior is a stylish cocoon with Nappa leather seats and tactile controls and buttons lending credence to the “humanized space” inference. The driver can monitor the Azkarra’s performance via the 7” instrument cluster, and the piano-key air conditioning buttons add an extra flair. However, the focal point on the interior is the best in class, HD colour 12.3” touchscreen infotainment panel with smart device mirroring capability. This is also where the 360-degree panoramic camera is viewed with a 3D option. The skylight panoramic sunroof is also best in class, allowing much more light into the already spacious and highly comfortable cabin. The highlight of the day had guests conveyed in an Azkarra motorcade, to Mikano International’s Karameh Industrial City for the opportunity to experience the Azkarra “Gamechanger” SUV first-hand! The drive along the highway was indescribably smooth and the isolation in the cabin combined with the premium sound system was first-class.