Chairman of Innoson Vehicles Manufacturing (IVM) Chief Innocent Chukwuma has said the company can manufacture any vehicle if given the sample and specifications. Chukwuma spoke through the Head Corporate Communications, Innoson Group, Cornel Osigwe, on Friday during some journalists’ facility tour of the company. According to him, the company produces 10,000 various brands of vehicles annually. “What we do here is pure manufacturing of vehicle and not assemblage. Our vehicles go through quality control before they are pushed to the public,” he said. He said over 60 percent of the manufacturing materials needs are sourced in Nigeria while only 40 percent are sourced from overseas. “We get our batteries from Ibeto motors, wire from cultist wires and others from Nigeria. We have over 1800 persons in our employment,” he said. According to him, Innoson only imports engine, gear box, electrical radio from abroad because no Nigeria company produces them, noting that the rest are produced in Nigeria. He also said that both the federal and state governments are patronising the company. “The military, Nigeria Police, Customs and NSCDC are our regular customers,” he said. He also said that the company has about 12 brands of vehicles in the factory and Nigerians are patronising them well. He commended the Anambra State governor Prof Charles Soludo for being the first Nigerian governor to endorse Innoson vehicles as state official vehicle. “Soludo is the first governor to endorse Innoson as the state official vehicles but Abia State Governor Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has been using Innoson vehicles,” he said. Chukwuma used the opportunity to disclose that the company will establish another Innoson motors manufacturing plant in Owerri, Imo State. According to him, the current expansion effort was to actualise the group’s mission to become a giant in vehicle manufacturing in Africa by serving the country’s and continent’s vehicle needs. “The Innoson factory will be situated at Naze Owerri in Imo State. We have already acquired about 150,000sqm land for this project and construction works are ongoing,” he said. He also appreciated the media for their continual support and partnership with his organisation.