The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Northern Stakeholders have disassociated themselves from Prof Ango Abdullahi’s endorsement of former Senate President Bukola Saraki and Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed as northern consensus aspirants. The stakeholders comprising members of the party’s Board of Trustees (BoT) including Sule Lamido, Adamu Maina Waziri, Babangida Aliyu, Dino Melaye, Boni Haruna, Ibrahim Idris, among others, met yesterday in Abuja. The meeting, Daily Trust report was convened specifically to puncture the endorsement of Saraki and Mohammed by Professor Abdullahi. The stakeholders who were from the 19 Northern states and Abuja in a communiqué after the meeting disclosed that the consensus arrangement is a national arrangement, not just for the north. They also insisted that the endorsement of the Saraki and Bala was a personal opinion of Professor Ango Abdullahi, adding that they were happy that the spokesman for the Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Dr. Hakeem Baba Ahmed had disassociated the group from Prof Abdullahi’s media statement. They made it clear that it is his personal opinion.” The communiqué signed by Sule Lamido and Adamu Waziri, appealed to all aspirants to be more temperate in their utterances and work to promote harmony and better understanding within the PDP family. “We would like to state from the onset that there is nothing called the Northern PDP. Our coming together as key stakeholders from the Northern states is only for the purpose of debunking any notion or impression, which might have been created by Prof Ango Abdullahi. “The aspirants have informed us that they are discussing among themselves. They are consulting other senior citizens to create a better understanding and unity among themselves. Their ultimate objective is to build a national consensus that will produce a national candidate for the party. We urge them to keep up with this commendable effort.” “We maintain that all our aspirants are qualified to occupy the Nigerian presidency under the PDP banner and we shall continue to support, promote and campaign and win the presidency by the candidate produced by our national convention scheduled for May 28th – 29th 2022,” they said.