No fewer than 12 commissioners and aides of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State have tendered their resignation to contest various political offices in 2023. Our correspondent confirmed the resignation of five appointees of Abdulrazaq. Government sources said the affected appointees submitted their letters on Friday. Those that have been confirmed to have submitted their letters include the Commissioner for Education and Human Capital Development, Hajia Sa’adatu Modibbo-Kawu, Commissioner for Enterprise, Hajia Arinola Lawal who is the daughter of the former governor, Alhaji Mohammed Lawal. They are both gunning for Ilorin East/Ilorin South Federal Constituency seat in the House of Representatives. Others are the Special Adviser to the governor on Special duties, Alhaji Yinka Aluko, who resigned to contest the Kwara Central Senatorial seat while Dr Mohammed Abubakar, Special Assistant to the Governor on Solid Minerals Development has also resigned to run as a lawmaker to represent Edu at the Kwara State House of Assembly. Others who are said to have also resigned but yet to be confirmed by Daily Trust are the Commissioner for Justice, Salman Jawondo (SAN) eyeing House of Representatives seat in Ilorin West/Asa, his counterpart in Mining, Harriet Afolabi-Oshatimehin as well as Mr Kayode Oyin-Zubair, SSA on Community Intervention. Oyin-Zubair and Harriet are both seeking election into House of Representatives in Ifelodun/Offa/Oyun Federal Constituencies. The KWASSIP General Manager, Mohammed Brimah, also eyeing Ilorin East and South seat in the House of Representatives and Dr Raji Razak, the state Commissioner for Health, who is seeking election into the Irepodun/Isin/Ekiti/Oke-Ero Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives are said to have also resigned their appointment. Alhaji Abdulateef Alakawa, Special Adviser to the governor on Politics, is also eyeing Ilorin West-Asa Federal Constituency of the state. Telephone calls put across to Jawondo and Oyin-Zubair were not answered while the SMS sent to them were not replied. Raji simply said, “I will call you back,” when contacted, but did not do so and refused to pick subsequent calls.