The Kwara State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Monday reacted to the protest over alleged imposition of candidates during its primaries. Some youths had at the weekend in Offa LGA of the state protested against the choice of Hon Hassan Oyeleke as the House of Representatives candidate for Ifelodun/Offa/Oyun Federal Constituency. The development is coming despite the warning handed down by the leader of the party, Bukola Saraki, who was also in Kwara at the weekend. Saraki’s warning followed a similar protest by some youths in Ilorin over the same issue. But the party insisted that all its candidates at all levels emerged through consensus agreed upon by all stakeholders and party members. Addressing reporters in Offa, the Kwara South Senatorial Chairman of PDP, Comrade Bisi Fakayode, explained the consensus arrangement. “Kwara south senatorial leadership of the PDP accepts full responsibility for all the candidates that have so far emerged. “It needs to be emphasised that five aspirants from Offa originally expressed interest in the House of Representatives seat. Three others joined later and they were accommodated. That is what happened. “Ours is a democratic party which derives its powers from the people. It is the people that decide what they want”, he added. He said: “It is an open secret that some youths were seen in Offa protesting against the process that led to the nomination of Oyeleke. “When the guidelines of our party were released, the leadership at the senatorial level brainstormed and resolved to adopt the consensus arrangement in picking our candidates. “We further agreed to go for primary election wherever the consensus arrangement would not work.” A member of the PDP Board of Trustees (BoT), Hon Ebun Owolabi, used the forum to appeal to aggrieved members to be magnanimous in defeat. Speaking in the same vein, former Kwara South Senator Rafiu Ibrahim, who emerged as the district candidate for Senate, argued that PDP is currently in good stead to come out victorious at the 2023 general elections.