Professor Chukwuma Charles Soludo has taken over the leadership of Anambra State amid high expectations from residents. The people have high expectations from the former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as the number one citizen in the state. And they are hopeful that he would provide the needed dividends of democracy. It is believed that the governor is aware of these expectations and would be prepared to deliver on his promises. Some residents who spoke to Daily Trust Saturday said they expected the new government to solve the problem of insecurity in the state, which has sent many people to their untimely graves, as well as gully erosion, which has devastated and buried many houses and farmlands; construction and maintenance of roads, especially those connecting different communities. They also expect Governor Soludo to turn around the various general hospitals in the state to become centres of excellence. They want him to restore sanity in the state, where wrongs were done with impunity, as well as retrieve the state’s economy from the few who intimidate the people and collect all kinds of revenue and remit pittance to the government. They also expect him to immediately conduct local government election and create jobs for youths in the state. Speaking to our correspondent, the convener of Recover Nigeria Project, Comrade Osita Obi, said Anambra people expected the new governor to take the state to the next level by driving out touts out of the state. “Soludo should try as much as possible to retrieve revenue windows in the state from private individual. Over 80 per cent of the state’s internally generated revenue is in the hands of private individuals,” he said, noting that revenue collection should be digitalised so that what is realised would go into government’s coffers. He also said Governor Soludo should bring those who had plundered the state to book; and there should be no cover-up, noting that the state had been plundered by some selfish individuals. He also said there was the need for obedience to law and order, without which there will not be peace and development. “He should beef up security in the state to ensure protection of lives and property. The rate of killing in the state is getting higher every day. “There should not be any more godfatherism in the state. Government is expected to perform its functions to the people without fear or favour. We don’t want a repeat of what happened during the past government. He should tackle acts of impunity among some individuals in the state,” he said. He also said Soludo should conduct local government election as it would help to create jobs for jobless youths in various communities Also, Mr Chimezie Patrick, a civil servant and resident of Awka, the state capital, said the people needed a good and honest leadership that would touch the lives of the masses; therefore, things that affect the lives of common people should be given adequate attention and addressed. “It is good that the former governor left some projects, he should ensure that they are completed,” he said, adding that the present government is expected to provide adequate security in the state, as well as the basic amenities and services that would encourage the people to pay taxes. “Government should prioritise public good and not concentrating on selected individuals. They should prioritise those things that touch the lives of the poor and the rich. Government should look at public water supply. Anambra State used to have a water corporation that gave water to the masses, so the governor should address it and make sure that people spend less on the purchase of sachet water. “We also expect him to improve on public schools so that people would have the confidence to send their children there instead of flooding private schools. We expect Soludo to find out the needs of those public schools and address them, so that we can have a rebirth of schools like Aguata Boys’ where he attended. “He should ensure that good public schools are within a distance of two kilometres so that people would put their children there as it would be more convenient. “If public schools are close and well funded, the poor and the rich will go there and get good education,” he said. He continued, “We are also expecting that Soludo would create jobs for the teeming youths of the state, not just creating offices for them and paying them money every month, and at the end of the government they will go back to unemployment. “The governor should ensure that workers’ salaries are paid as at when due, as well as ensure that the rights of workers are protected. “He should always ensure that traditional institutions are protected in various communities so that the people would truly choose who becomes their rulers and president-general of organisations without government’s interference. “Soludo should also strengthen the local government system to ensure that it is functional by conducting local government elections. “Today, local governments do not have money to function and many people are denied jobs and amenities. “Local governments should be allowed to function to manage parks and markets; the state government has no business in those areas.” Again, Anthony Okafor, a lawyer and resident of Awka, said the people’s expectation were very high because of the personality involved. “We expect him to leverage on what the immediate past government did and improve on them. We expect him to rehabilitate Anambra roads as we now have bad roads everywhere. He should address that issue. “Most importantly, everywhere in Anambra is like a motor or motorcycle park; he should know how to handle them. It is embarrassing that roads leading to the state secretariat have been taken over by motorcycle operators and nothing is being done about it. “He should also improve on the education system in the state. We have been getting good results, both in the West African Senior School Examination (WASSE) conducted by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC) and the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) conducted by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) since the administration of Peter Obi, but he needs to improve on it. “Soludo should look into the level of security in the state and address it He should also look into the plight of pensioners; since 2017 they have not received their gratuities. It will be very bad if they cry to their graves,” he said. Another resident, Osita Chiemerie, said Anambra people were expecting the governor to improve on the health system of the state. He said most general hospitals were bereft of medical facilities, even as weeds had taken over some of their environments, forcing citizens to look up to private hospitals for medical attention. “Some of the hospitals do not have adequate manpower and equipment to treat serious cases; hence, the governor should ensure that they are not reduced to mere consulting clinics because of negligence. He should declare a state of emergency on the health sector,” he said.