Mikano Motors has added a new luxury SUV from its Geely Nigeria lineup named Azkarra aka “the game-changer”. The new luxury SUV has been described as an embodiment of Geely’s commitment to technological advancements in the automotive industry, most especially for hi-tech convenience and safety features to enhance a pleasurable driving experience. The Azkarra is available in Nigeria in two trims, the Azkarra Platinum Pro and the Azkarra Titanium. For both trims, the engine, transmission, platform and suspension are co-developed with VOLVO: it’s no longer news that Geely took full ownership of Volvo Autos in 2010. In addition, the Platinum Pro features a unique 48V EMS (Electric Motor Synergy) mild hybrid technology which ensures an incredibly smooth handling of the car, intuitively combining an electrical configuration with the conventional fuel system to power the turbo-charged engine. This also means that this car offers up to 15% improved fuel efficiency. The intelligent Azkarra makes a mature and elegant statement with bold, distinguished lines on the exterior and a spacious interior that boasts of the finest Italian Nappa leather on the Platinum Pro trim. The leather seats are specially crafted to provide muscular support to the waist, shoulders and thighs of the driver and passengers alike, making for an incredibly comfortable ride. Part of the luxury is the sensory playground that is the cockpit. It has 42 different colour choices of ambient lighting, the biggest skylight panoramic sunroof in its segment, smartphone wireless charging and the mirror link feature that allows the driver to replicate his phone screen onto the large 12.3 inch infotainment panel. The 360 degrees panoramic camera, just like the Geely Coolray, provides a bird’s eye view of your surroundings – a great plus for better navigation. As with the other cars in the Geely lineup, the noise and vibration from the Azkarra is virtually non-existent due to the high-quality sound insulation materials that shield the car from external noise, keeping the cabin a sanctuary for peace and isolation even when cruising at high speeds. Mikano said the Geely Azkarra builds on Coolray’s successful entry onto the Nigerian auto scene, further highlighting Geely’s prowess in developing innovative mobility solutions. It is a true testament to Geely’s design ethos for building “refined rides for everyone”.