The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has given approval to 7Star Global Hangar Limited, an indigenous Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility, to carry out maintenance on Dana Air’s MD83 aircraft. The maintenance to be done include 3C, CPCP, ADS, and ADD on Dana airlines MD83 aircraft with the registration number 5N-SAI. Before now, most of these kinds of maintenance were done abroad and some cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. The approval letter from the NCAA signed by Engr V. Goyea, General Manager (ACCA) for the Director-General urged 7STAR to comply with all extant provisions of Nig. CARs and in particular Nig. CARs part 6, and in addition, all tasks requiring detailed x ray and HFEC inspections. In his reaction to the approval, the Managing Director and CEO, Engr. Isaac Balami, said 7Star has done five C and D checks on various aircraft with Augusta 139 8 Years Inspection (D-Check) being the first time in the history of Africa that the level will be done on that particular helicopter which he regarded as a complex new generation helicopter. He said the Dana Air deal will lead to the employment of thirty engineers. This consequently means that over 1,500 jobless licensed aircraft engineers will be gainfully employed if local airlines, private jet owners, state and federal governments can patronise and support this great employment initiative. He added that with the approval on MD 83, it also showed that NCAA has recognised 7Star’s worth and effort to ensure aircraft serviceability across the region. Balami noted that a test flight was conducted on AW-139 some few days ago after the D-Check and the aircraft came back with zero technical fault. He also revealed that 20-year maintenance and inspection on a Challenger 604 jet belonging to a Nigerian operator was concluded last month and this is unprecedentedly the first time in West Africa. The 7Star boss said the jobs were being done with about 90 percent of Nigerians, adding that they are stopping the huge capital flight and creating new jobs for Nigerian aircraft engineers. Balami said having carried out more than five checks and everything was working accordingly without any query and technical issues showed that Nigerian aircraft engineers and their partners NHV were making good efforts. The Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Dana Group, Mr Sukhwinder Mann, said the decision was premised on the Dana’s Group’s pledge to the local economy whilst ensuring further development of the Nigerian aviation sector. “I am pleased to announce that we have selected 7Star as our preferred MRO partner. The appointment will further enhance the 7Star range of MRO services to now include the MD80 aircraft range which means more jobs for the Nigerian aviation sector and potentially makes the Nigerian MRO sector more attractive to foreign carriers wishing to undertake heavy maintenance checks within the African continent.” The appointment will see 7Star increase employment in the local community and train fresh engineers in the MD80 range of aircraft. 7Star CEO, Engr Isaac Balami. commented that the appointment will further boost the MROs service offering and will help to put the Nigerian MRO sector on the world map.