The leaderships of Yankaba Perishables and Yan Lemo fruit markets have attributed the high price of food commodities mostly used during the ongoing fasting period to the high price of diesel and insufficient supply. They said due to the increase in the price of diesel, the cost of transporting goods to Kano has also gone up exponentially pushing most of them out of business with others having no choice but to increase the price of the goods to be able to stay in business. Terrorists can be exterminated in 6 months – Retired Generals Senate extends 2021 budget implementation by 2 months Rabiu Danladi, the Secretary of the Yankaba Market Association told Daily Trust that the price of perishables (pepper, tomatoes, etc) in the market had doubled in the past one week. “Pepper is recording much concern because it is not available in Kano due to bad yield it had in recent times courtesy of the weather. “Even that of Kazaure is not strong, so we have to look into Bauchi and other neighbouring states producing it to import.” He, however, accused dealers and small-scale businesses operating within local areas of inflating the prices of these items thereby contributing to the hardship of the people. Also speaking, a businessman at Yan Lemo market, Jibrin Ahmad Jibrin lamented how they were bringing in a truckload of oranges at the rate of N400,000 just a few weeks ago but now transporting it at the rate of N700,000 due to the high rate of diesel. “Whatever you see here that we are selling at a high price it is because of the inflation in the price of diesel.” Also reacting, the Public Relations Officer, Yan Lemo market, Murtala Yunusa confirmed the development while also associating it with the transport system that has become a problem. “If you compare how we are buying these items and the cost of transportation, it nearly doubles and it’s all because of the cost of diesel”, he said. He appealed to consumers to bear with the circumstances while they are trying to get things under control.