The Executive members of the All Progressives Congress(APC) South-East zone have expressed happiness over the judgement by the Appeal Court sitting in Enugu which quashed the suit filed against Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi. The suit filed by the candidate of the APC in the 2019 governorship election, Sonni Ogbuoji and his deputy, Justin Ogbodo Mbam, prayed the court to declare the seats of Umahi and his deputy, Kelechi Igwe vacant on the grounds of their defection from the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) to the APC. Ekiti residents seek death penalty for kidnappers Overloading: seven killed, 21 injured in Kwara auto crash But in a unanimous judgment delivered by Justice J. O. K. Oyewole on Friday, the court held that the appellants had no locus standi in their bid to supplant the respondents, insisting that the constitution did not provide for their removal from office although the defection of the governor and his deputy might appear immoral. However, briefing newsmen at the end of their inaugural meeting at the APC Zonal Office in Enugu on Sunday National Vice Chairman, Southeast of the party, Ijeomah Arodiogbu, said they were happy with the outcome of the judgement and that it was part of their responsibility to defend all the states under the party’s control. He said, “Ebonyi is one of such states and we cannot let people come in through the back door and harass the Governor.” Arodiogbu appealed to the residents in the South-East to continue to support the party, particularly during the coming elections in order to attract more infrastructure development. He further said, “We are appealing to our brothers and sisters in the South-East to support the government at the centre because it has brought massive infrastructure to the zone. There are a lot of good things to benefit if we support the party”. According to him, the zonal office of the party has a target in the election which is to win all states in the South-East, stressing that the goal cannot be achieved without the support of the people. On whether the APC will zone the presidential ticket to the region, he said, “It is the decision of the party leadership to make,” adding, however, “But I believe that they know that there is the need to embrace the South-East”. Also present during the meeting were the zonal women leader of the party, Uchenna Diyoke, the Zonal Youth leader, Nkenna Anyalewechi and the zonal secretary, Itata Azuobu. End