The Katsina State Independent Electoral Commission (KSIEC) had yesterday declared that APC won 33 of the chairmanship seats. The Secretary of the commission, Lawal Alhassan Faskari, had on Monday night said APC won all the chairmanship and councillorship seats in 31 LGAs. Also yesterday, the commission announced that the ruling party won Daura and Funtua LGAs. The election in Dutsinma LGA, where the former governor of the state, Ibrahim Shema, hails from, has been cancelled due to irregularities. Reacting to the outcome of the poll, PDP claimed that it won all the elections, saying the results announced by the commission were not obtained from the polling units. Speaking with members of the press, a PDP chieftain and governorship candidate in the 2019 election in the state, Senator Yakubu Lado, appealed to the state government not to plunge the state into anarchy by changing the will of the electorate. He said as a law-abiding party, PDP will follow all legal means to reclaim its victory and called on all supporters of the party to remain calm, and not take the law into their hands. On its part, the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) described the election as “child’s play”. The state Financial Secretary, Zubairu Alti, who stated the position of the party, said it rejects the outcome of the election in its entirety. Meanwhile, the state governor, Aminu Masari, will today swear in the newly elected council chairmen. The Director General, New Media to the governor, Al’Amin Isah, stated this in an invitation released yesterday. Similarly, the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Adamawa State has won all 21 local government seats in the state. The chairman, Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission, Isa Shettima, announced the results yesterday amid allegations of rigging by the opposition APC. The APC Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Abdullahi, rejected the results as a collection of fabricated figures, saying the party would respond accordingly. The state chairman of the PDP, Barrister Shehu, said the fact that APC won some councillorship seats in the election showed the magnanimity of the PDP government in the state. The state electoral body which conducted the local council elections, on Saturday, described the conduct as peaceful, free and fair.