Leke Adeboye, the son and Senior Personal Assistant of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has been criticised for calling RCCG pastors, who preached after his father had the delivered a monthly sermon, goats. Adeboye had said he was still doubtful whether or not the general elections would hold in 2023, because God had not made such a revelation to him. The cleric had said that God had spoken to him a year before 2019 elections, but the case has not been so with the 2023 elections. However, after thanksgiving on Sunday, some pastors shared their own messages after Adeboye had delivered his sermon, which holds first Sunday of every month. RCCG pastors were expected to hook up with their national headquarters where Adeboye delivered a sermon expected to be the only preaching for that Sunday. Writing on his Instagram page, Leke described pastors, who flouted the norm, as “goats.” “Why would you go and preach another sermon after Daddy GO had just finished speaking and preaching? “You are not a son, you are a goat, sir. Next Thanksgiving service, just do altar call, then Thanksgiving,” he wrote. His comment has however elicited anger from Twitter users. A tweep, Ola Ogunfemi, urged the church to suspend Leke for the outburst. He wrote, “#rccg should suspend Leke Adeboye for calling ordained pastors #GOAT.. what a gut.” Another commenter, Oluwatosin Amokeoja, said “two wrongs don’t make a right,” noting that Leke went over board calling pastors goat. “(It) really leaves much to be desired. Always been controversial though. I wonder how he would have reacted if he was the G.O,” Amokeoja added. Aderonke Sauce also berated the Leke, saying though she is a Redeemer, the comment was misplaced. She stated, “@LekeAdeboye because your father is a G.O doesn’t give you the anointing to be one. Why will you call an ordained ministers that preach after daddy GO preached goat? Is that what Jesus preached?” Another tweep, identified simply as Ayo, also said it was demeaning to refer to a human being as a goat. He said, “Why is Leke Adeboye like this?
He (is) always into scandal. Why will a Christian call image of God a goat?” 