The 37-member zoning committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is expected to announce its resolution on the zoning arrangement of the party for the 2023 presidency. Daily Trust had reported that the committee was set to jettison the zoning arrangement of the party to allow its presidential aspirants to battle for the ticket of the party at the May 28-29 primaries. Presidential aspirants have embarked on consultations and networking to ensure that the committee’s decision would be favourable to them. A source close to one of the aspirants told Daily Trust, “We are waiting for the outcome of the committee, but that will not stop us from our consultations. It is a continuous process. No matter what the committee decides, we will see after that. “But for now we are carrying on with our normal activities. We know the committee has the interest of the party at heart. They will do the right thing.” Asked about their expectations, the spokesman to former vice president Atiku Abubakar, Mr. Paul Ibe, said they hope the committee will come up with a resolution that will lead the party to victory. Another party source close to one of the aspirants working for the emergence of a consensus candidate told Daily Trust, “We cannot really say anything now until the committee comes out with its resolution. “We don’t want to overreach ourselves; we are already working on the consensus arrangement. Anything the party comes out with we will take it from there.” Atiku submits nomination form Meanwhile, former vice president Atiku Abubakar has submitted his nomination and expression of interest form for the 2023 general elections. Speaking shortly after the submission, leader of the Atiku campaign organisation, High Chief Raymond Dokpesi, said the outcome of the zoning committee report will not be against them. He also added that they would also not have anything against any outcome from the committee. Speaking before the submission of the form which was certified okay by the National Organizing Secretary, Alhaji Bature Umar, a member of the Atiku team, Senator Dino Melaye, said Atiku was the first to pick his form and the first to submit it, adding that he had been divinely told that Atiku will be the president of Nigeria. Why we are canvassing for consensus – Saraki A former Senate president, Bukola Saraki, has said the decision to canvass for a consensus candidate was a result of the interest of the country. Saraki said this yesterday in Benin when he led Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal; Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed; and Mohammed Hayatu-Deen to meet Governor Godwin Obaseki on the consensus arrangement. Speaking on behalf of others, Saraki said the visit was to canvass for the option to adopt a consensus candidate for the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. “We need your support in this process. What Nigerians need now is a president that has a team to work with. The problems are huge and we all have the qualities to lead this country,” he said. Responding, Obaseki said the country was in dire need of a leader with the capacity to unite and rebuild the nation.