The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and some selected political leaders alongside elders from the South East zone have endorsed a former president of the Senate, Anyim Pius Anyim, for president ahead of the 2023 general elections. Anyim was endorsed by the stakeholders during a briefing and consultative session he hosted yesterday in Enugu. In a 10-point resolution issued at the end of the meeting, signed by a former governor of Abia State, Senator Theodore Orji, who also chaired the session, and Chief Duru-Iheoma (SAN), a former chairman of PDP in Imo State, the stakeholders said Anyim’s decision to contest was a right step in the right direction. “The choice of a South East citizen as presidential candidate of the party in 2023 will guarantee for every Nigerian a sense of equity, justice and inclusion in the management of the affairs of the nation.  In our view, this is the best way of ensuring that we build a nation that leaves no one or group behind. “We, therefore, unanimously endorse his (Anyim) aspiration with all conviction and enthusiasm and eagerly commend him to the rest of the nation as a worthy leader who will pilot the affairs of the nation towards greater security, unity and prosperity for all citizens,” they said. The political leaders from Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo states, said they endorsed Anyim “taking due cognisance of his precious record of distinguished and unblemished service as president of the Senate and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF).” Speaking at the event, Anyim urged Nigerians to appeal to political parties in the country to zone their 2023 presidential tickets to the South East. Atiku best man for the job – Allies Meanwhile, some political  allies of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, urged some governors and Nigerians to extol his greatness while still alive by making him president in 2023. The allies, under the aegis of Waziri Atiku Political Family and Associates (WAPFA), through their National Coordinator, Elijah Afolabi, in a statement, said Atiku remained the best man for the apex seat in the country. Afolabi said the culture of paying glowing tributes to great men in the country after their death is not the best, and asked PDP leaders to consider Atiku for the presidential ticket again.  “Now that the man is alive, hale and hearty, able, ready and willing to serve, let’s make use of him with his God’s given wisdom, which he has demonstrated in his private endeavours to lead us out of this mess we currently find ourselves,” the group said.