The parents of Chidalu Bright Onyekwuluje have vowed that none of their children will attend boarding house after the death of their only son at the boarding facility of St Michaels Boys Secondary School, Ozubulu Nnewi Anambra State Prince Cornelius and Ogochukwu Onyekwuluje, parents of Chidalu, who allegedly died due to the negligence of the school management vowed that none of their children will ever attend boarding school. JUST IN: Rafael Benitez sacked as Everton manager Man, 43, ‘rapes’ 80-year-old woman in Nasarawa The young boy allegedly died at St Michaels Boys Secondary School, Ozubulu, Nnewi local government due to the negligence of school management. Pained by the loss of their only son, the family withdrew their daughters from boarding school in the state as their father. According to Prince Onyekwuluje who spoke to journalists in Awka Anambra State, he said that he decided to withdraw his other children from boarding school, after the excruciating experience he had with the death of his only son. Bright Chidalu died on December 17, after he took ill in the school, and the management allegedly kept quiet, to ensure he finishes his exams, thereby aggravating the health condition of the student. The management of the school denied the allegation. Prince Onyekwuluje said he has withdrawn his two other daughters who are in an all-girls boarding house. He said, “Bright is my only son and having seen the fate that has befallen him in the hands of the school management as a boarder, I have therefore withdrawn my two daughters who are schooling in St John of God Secondary school, Awka. “I have sat and thought about the things that are happening in boarding schools, including the one at Dowen College, the Deeper Life school in Uyo and now my son in St Michaels Boys College, Ozubulu, and I have concluded that as far as I’m alive, none of my children will ever attend a boarding school in this country anymore. “I did not go to school, so my wish is that all my children will go to good schools, to attain education, but you have seen the fate that befell my only son, Bright Chidalu, so I have made up my mind about boarding schools in Nigeria.” Last two weeks, Bright Onyekwuluje was buried in his home town, Uzoakwa, Ihiala, Anambra State.