 Governorship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti have protested the conduct of the ward congress to elect three ad hoc delegates to participate in the January 26 shadow poll of the party. The aspirants include a former Ekiti State governor, Engr. Segun Oni, Senator Biodun Olujimi, Alhaji Lateef Ajijola and Mr. Yinka Akerele. The four aspirants who stormed the streets of Ado-Ekiti yesterday with their hundreds of supporters displaying placards, condemned the national leadership of PDP, led by Senator Ayorcha Ayu, over alleged manipulation of the exercise to favour former governor Ayodele’s political group. Addressing journalists in Ado-Ekiti, Senator Olujimi, who was flanked by Ajijola, Akerele and Oni, noted that the ward congress didn’t take place in any part of the state, adding that the purported result being bandied around was allegedly concocted by Fayose. She accused the five-man panel sent by the PDP national secretariat to supervise the congress, saying that the exercise was shrouded in secrecy to subvert the people’s will, transparency and inclusive participation of all aspirants. She pointed out that the exercise was devoid of democratic ethos and ideals as many PDP members across the 177 wards in the state waited in the sun for hours expecting the arrival of electoral materials, only to be told that the election had been conducted. “There was no ad hoc ward congress and we want absolute cancellation. What really happened was that one person hijacked all the materials and went to write the entire list. If you hijacked the materials and you are writing the names of the delegates, then, you will surely face the consequences. She alleged that the exercise was deliberately designed from the outset to favour Fayose to ensure his preferred aspirants secured the party’s flag in the June 18 governorship election in the state. Meanwhile, the Bisi Kolawole campaign organization has cautioned PDP governorship aspirants in Ekiti State against campaign of calumny against the leadership of the party over last Saturday’s ward ad hoc delegates congress.