One thing that is commonly associated with most Nigerians these days is misplaced aggression or transferred aggression.  In most cases when an innocent person is assaulted either physically or verbally for no fault of his, it is a case of transfer of aggression. This is so rampant now that almost every Nigerian is literally struggling to make ends meet. Quite recently, Nigeria’s President, Muhammadu Buhari was a victim of what many of us believe was transfer of aggression. This happened immediately after the Super Eagles crashed out of the ongoing Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. After the AFCON mishap, there was definitely the need for a scapegoat and Mr. President was the butt of expensive social media jokes by Nigerians who desperately needed someone to blame. It will be recalled that a few minutes to the Round of 16 clash between the Super Eagles of Nigeria and the Carthage Eagles of Tunisia on Sunday January 23, Buhari, despite his ever busy schedule, found time to motivate his boys with a Presidential video call. Although it is not clear if he spoke to each member of the team, one thing that is certain is that he addressed the team and charged the players and their officials to go for victory against Tunisia. He commended Coach Austin Eguavoen, the Nigeria Football Federation and the Minister of Sports, Sunday Dare for a job well done. That was exactly what those who arranged the video parley wanted to achieve. Organisers of the Presidential call neither imagined nor envisaged what was going to follow that brief session between Buhari and the team. However, those of us who are familiar with Super Eagles’ ability to blow hot and cool saw what was to come in a few hours. It was a serious miscalculation on the part of the President’s handlers. If I were Femi Adesina, I would have arranged for the President to speak with the team after the victory over Egypt. This is because even as 1+1 is not two in football, the possibility of the Super Eagles beating both Sudan and Guinea Bissau was higher than when they were to face Tunisia in the Round of 16. Indeed, the Super Eagles triumphed over Sudan and Guinea Bissau in style to complete the group phase with the maximum number of points. So, even if Mr. President had made the call at that time, the mental strain that his spokesman endured while writing a ‘rejoinder’ to reprimand and castigate Nigerians who blamed the loss to Tunisia on his principal could have been avoided. As we already know, the Presidential call didn’t save the Super Eagles from that painful defeat. Expectedly, Nigerians took to the social media and their victim was President Buhari whose call they claimed brought ill-luck to the Super Eagles. As a matter of fact, even before the match was played, some likened Super Eagles fate to British born heavyweight boxer Anthony Joshua whom they claimed lost one of his fights after he visited and prostrated before the President. Such naysayers said nothing good can come out of Buhari. Sadly, when the football tragedy happened, it was quickly politicised. It became an opportunity for members of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and even a pocket of APC members to blame the President for bringing bad luck to the Super Eagles. As a matter of fact, superstition wasn’t left out of the blame game as some said anything Buhari touches turns to ashes instead of gold. I could feel Adesina’s frustration and disappointment with Nigerians when he wrote to exonerate his boss and educate us on how the only thing that is permanent in football is defeat. He said invincibility has no place in football. According to him, every team no matter how formidable has a date with defeat. Adesina’s message to Nigerians was that they should learn to be good losers. After careful consideration of the hullabaloo and ballyhoo that greeted the President’s motivational call, I want to be petty like some of my compatriots who are still blaming Baba Buhari for that misadventure in Garoua. Come to think of it, was it not the infamous call that made Simon Moses so excited that he kept dribbling even when he was supposed to pass the ball? As a matter of fact, it was the Presidential call that instigated that reckless and harsh tackle that fetched Alex Iwobi the red card that further clipped the wings of the Super Eagles. The same call from Aso Rock blocked the view of the model between the sticks, Maduka Okoye, when Mskni fired the scorcher from 25 years out. Adesina, please know now that it was your boss’ call that made the Super Eagles so predictable that the Tunisians knew that once they put two or three players on both Moses and Chukwueze, their opponents’ wings would be clipped permanently. In fact, the call handed over Super Eagles’ hallowed dressing room to attention seeking Nigerians who invaded it with pledges of dollar and naira rain to distract the players. Honestly, the President played into the hands of those who pray daily for the slightest opportunity to vilify him. Those who pushed him to make that call should take the blame for the bashing he suffered. I am sure some sycophants cajoled him to make that needless contact with the ill-fated Super Eagles. I feel pain that for no fault of his, Mr. President who likes to mind his business was exposed for hungry and angry Nigerians to feast on.