Remo Stars unbeaten run in the 2021/2022 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season will face stern test this afternoon when they visit Enugu Rangers in Nnewi. It therefore promises to be fireworks at the Ifeanyi Ubah stadium, Rangers adopted home ground because there is so much at stake in the NPFL Week 8 fixture. Remo Stars who are in second position on the table with 17 points are one of the unbeaten teams in the current campaign and victory over Rangers will return them to the summit of the table. The other unbeaten side in the league, Rivers United, are leading the table with 18 points, one more than Remo Stars. Another interesting thing about the midweek fixture is that the coach of Remo Stars, Gbenga Ogunbote once had a successful reign at Rangers where he led the ‘Flying antelopes’ to continental competitions. It will, therefore, be a homecoming for Ogunbote who is popularly called the ‘oracle’ by his teeming admirers. Meanwhile, Enugu Rangers are lurking in third position with 14 points same as Remo Stars so they know that victory in today’s match will lift them above Remo Stars on superior goal difference. However, considering that Remo Stars have successfully punched above their weight with two away victories at MFM and Wikki Tourists to show for their good run, Rangers must be wary of the visitors. Rangers have also recorded an away win which came against troubled neighbours, Heartland and will fancy their chance of grabbing the maximum points against Remo Stars. However, Remo Stars inspirational player, Dayo Ojo believes victory over the ‘Flying Antelopes’ is possible. “It is very doable, nothing is impossible in football. I think we are prepared to play against them, and we will do our best to ensure we pick up something in Nnewi,” he told Club Media. But if the potentially explosive fixture ends in a draw, Rivers United with superior goal difference will go into their next match as table toppers. Meanwhile, still recovering from the shock of the death of their General Manager, Rasheed Balogun, 3SC will host Kwara United in Ibadan to round up the NPFL Week 8 matches.