 The crude oil market started on a positive note in 2022, rising by 0.72 per cent ($78.34 per barrel) ahead of Tuesday’s Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC+) meeting. The bullish trading as shown by Reuters was recorded on Monday with suppliers in focus. The transaction is the first after the New Year holiday, despite the surging cases of COVID-19. In the report, Brent crude added 56 cents, or 0.72%, to $78.34 a barrel, as of 0710 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures gained 52 cents, or 0.69%, to $75.73 a barrel. Abhishek Chauhan said: “Tightened supplies from Libya ahead of an Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies (OPEC+) meeting kept the market sentiments positive.” Meanwhile, OPEC+ will probably stick to their plan to add 400,000 barrels per day of supply in February, four sources said. Last year, oil prices rose around 50%, spurred by the global economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic slump and producer restraint, even as infections reached record highs worldwide. Implication for Nigeria The landing cost of Premium Motor Spirit being imported into Nigeria surged by more than 60 per cent in 2021 whilst the pump price of the product remained unchanged. From an average of N143.60 per litre in December 2020,  the landing cost of petrol rose to N231.98 per litre on June 16 in 2021  on the back of the rally in global oil prices and the depreciation of the naira against the dollar. If oil prices are bullish, as they currently are, the government earns more money and can fulfil its financial obligations. When it earns less, as it did in 2020 when crude bottomed out,  its financial capacity shrinks, sending the economy, which is reasonably dependent on government spending, to tailspin. With Nigeria’s refineries operating at a near-zero capacity, the country depends solely on importation for its daily PMS need, which is estimated at N52 million litres. Hence, rising oil prices mean more pressure on the country’s foreign exchange, 90 per cent of which is, ironically, earned from crude exports. After 2 tenure, OPEC Sec Gen Barkindo exits July as members appoint Kuwaiti The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has appointed Mr Haiham Al-Ghais of Kuwait as Secretary General of the organization at a special meeting of the OPEC Conference on Monday. The meeting came ahead of the exit of the current Secretary General, Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo of Nigeria whose second tenure will end July 31. It was held via videoconference under the Chairmanship of its President, HE Bruno Jean-Richard Itoua, Congo’s Minister of Hydrocarbons and Head of its Delegation. The members at the 182nd meeting in December 2021 had raised a procedure in line with the Article 28 of the OPEC Statute. In a statement on Monday, the intercontinental agency representing oil exporting member countries said: “The Conference decided by acclamation to appoint Mr Haitham Al-Ghais of Kuwait as Secretary General of the Organization, with effect from 1 August 2022, for a period of three years.” Al-Ghais was Kuwait’s OPEC Governor from 2017 to June 2021 and is serving as the Deputy Managing Director for International Marketing at the Kuwait Petroleum Corporation (KPC). The conference also appreciated Barkindo for his leadership during his two-term tenure beginning on 1 August 2016 and ending on 31 July 2022. The members said Barkindo has been instrumental in expanding OPEC’s historical efforts to support sustainable oil market stability through enhanced dialogue and cooperation with many energy stakeholders. “These efforts are widely credited with helping to stabilize the global oil market since the unprecedented market downturn related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and providing a platform for recovery.”