The recent crisis between business owners and the Kano Urban Planning and Development Authority (KNUPDA) over an attempt to seize business area has been resolved. Thousands of business owners at the popular Kwari Market in Kano last Wednesday sent a ‘Save Our Soul’s message to Kano State governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje over the alleged plot to seize 800 business places. The location, popularly known as ‘Yan Tebura Mall’ along the Isyaka Rabiu Road, ‘Filin pakin’ in Kano is a reserved business place mostly for businessmen who have low capital,  managed and operated by youth seeking to explore a career in business. The space was donated by the Ganduje administration couple of years ago. The Chairman, Yan Tebura Mall, Zubairu Mansur Jingau said:  “On Tuesday, I received a call from Director Market, Balarabe Sabo Bakinzuwo of the Kano Urban Planning and Development Agency, KNUPDA, asking me to inform my people to evacuate all their belongings and leave the premises because the government wants to use the place before Thursday. “When I enquired, he said he was also instructed from above. I then pleaded for an extension and he said I should give him a minute, which he called back and said we were given from Tuesday to Saturday to leave. “I mobilised our people and inform them of the development. We are not going to fight with the government because it is the same government that gave us the place as compensation.” However, shortly after the call, the Kano Urban Planning and Development Authority, KNUPDA summoned an emergency meeting with the leadership of ‘Yan Tebura Mall’, and the leadership of the Kwari market alongside the investor who bought most of the spaces to address the issue. After hours of deliberations, an agreement was reached as the investor will use the spaces he bought while others who are not willing to sell will continue to maintain their business spaces. Speaking to Daily Trust, the Public Relations Officer, KNUPDA Ado Muhammad Gama confirmed the resolution between the marketers and the investor, adding that the committee set up to checkmate the issue has already visited the market and to ensure fair treatment. “Everything has been settled and everyone has been given his space,” he said.