Novak Djokovic flew out of Melbourne airport Sunday after losing a court battle to avoid deportation from Australia over his stance on Covid-19 vaccinations. An AFP reporter aboard the plane confirmed the flight to Dubai had taken off, after capturing images of Djokovic at Melbourne’s Tullamarine airport late Sunday. The Victoria state government and Tennis Australia had granted the Tennis star exemption from COVID-19 vaccination, which is part of the requirement to partake in the Australia Open, but the Australian Border Force rejected the exemption and cancelled his visa upon arrival in Melbourne. Subsequently, he was detained in a Hotel four nights in hotel detention before a court overturned that decision. After the court’s ruling, the coast was clear for Djokovic to compete but on Friday, the Australian government cancelled his visa, saying he poses a risk to the community. He had headed back to the court to challenge the government’s decision to cancel his visa on “health and good order” grounds. But the hope of defending his Australian Open title and winning a record 21st Grand Slam in Melbourne, were dashed after the court failed to rule in his favour. According to the BBC, during the court hearing on Sunday, a three-man panel, Chief Justice James Allsop said the federal court’s ruling was based on the lawfulness and legality of the decision to revoke the Tennis star’s visa, not on the “merits or wisdom of that decision”. Reacting to the fresh court ruling, Djokovic said, “I will co-operate with the relevant authorities in relation to my departure from the country. Djokovic added that he was uncomfortable with the focus placed on him because of the visa row. “I hope that we can all now focus on the game and tournament I love,” he said. His supporters fell silent outside the courtroom as the decision was announced. One of his fans told the BBC that her summer would be empty without the 34-year-old playing at the Open. But Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison welcomed the decision against Djokovic, saying ït will keep our borders strong and keep Australians safe”. “Australians have made many sacrifices during this pandemic, and they rightly expect the result of those sacrifices to be protected,” he said.