Movie: Chief Daddy 2: Going for Broke Director: Niyi Akinmolayan Writers: Bode Asiyanbi, Hiedi Uys, Salah Sabiti and Mo Abudu Date released: January 1, 2022 The sequel to Chief Daddy was released on January 1, 2022. It was released on Netflix on January 1, 2022, and directed by Niyi Akinmolayan, reputed for several award-winning movies, including Wedding Party that holds the record of the highest grossed movie in Nigeria. Among the writers are Mo Abudu, a renowned versatile entertainment guru, and has cast including Funke Akindele-Bello, Joke Silva, Rachel Oniga, Shaffy Bello, Kate Henshaw-Nuttal, Ini Edo, Folarin Falana, Mawuli Gavor and Zainab Balogun. The cast and crew are important to show the talents involved in this movie that was expected to supersede the high ratings and standards created by Chief Daddy which was released in 2018. The prequel left the audience with several questions yet left unanswered in the sequel. This sequel, considering the manner the first instalment, presented a better opportunity for the producers to deliver yet another outstanding work. It must have been in the pipeline for some time even before the prequel was released giving the producers enough opportunity for planning and execution of a world-class movie peculiar with the production team. Rather, it was disappointing and quite disturbing that the production team took four years to produce a movie that will likely cast a stain on their impeccable achievements. This is another case of needless use of the A-list cast. Notwithstanding their faultless delivery of a flawed script, the movie is below acceptable standard from a veteran entertainer. Chief Daddy 2: Going for broke has an A-list cast saddled with the responsibilities of delivering from faulty scripts. It is in a situation like this that one questions what some actors consider before taking a role. Their stellar career will be on the line should they continue taking roles like this. I will have to agree with a movie critic that said actors should not be entirely blamed in situations like this because they are also hustling after all we all know the economic situation of the country. But in fairness to them, their momentary individual brilliance added glamour to the project. Chief Daddy 2: Going for Broke is bereft of creativity due to disjointed plots and incoherent transitions. A substantial part of the movie was left to the audience to assume what happened especially scenes that involve Femi Beecroft popularly called Big Money Famzy (Folarin Falana) who left Nigeria for Dubai looking for a Sheikh to invest in his music career. He left without a clear description or location of the ghost investor making him depend on Omar (Broda Shaggi) who also deceived him, for no reason, on the investor’s whereabouts. The trip to Dubai should have been totally avoided in the movie same thing with the birthday celebration of Lady Kay (Joke Silva). Also, Remi Castle (Dakore Egbuson-Akande) should have heeded the advice to call on her husband Tega Castle (Richard Mofe Damijo) to help the Beecroft’s family with sound legal guidance as she was more like a puppet and could not be differentiated from aggrieved family members. The Remi Castle famed for her sound legal stand and charismatic poise as seen Chief Daddy as well as Castle and Castle were missing in action. She barely uttered any word expected of a lawyer of her calibre until she was contacted by Damilare Kofi Mensah also called Dammy Baggio (Mawuli Gavor) in a video call. More disturbing were the roles of Tinu and Teni Beecroft played by Funke Akindele-Bello and Kate Henshaw-Nuttal. Their roles were confusing with no significant contributions to the plot. Their parts in the movie were one of untapped opportunity by the producers, they should have been given some almost latent roles as Donatus (Nkem Owoh), Madam Pat (Patience Ozokwor), Ekanem (Ini Edo). Also, the hilarious attempt by the addition of Nedu and Chigul was laughable. Notwithstanding the production was top-notch while Yolanda Okereke did a wonderful job with the costume showcasing in no small way Nigeria’s culture. Should you be worried about the delivery or the flaws of the scripts, just focus on the costume, it might help a bit. Also, Bose Kodaolu deserves commendation for the hairstyling. Cast: Remi Castle (Dakore Egbuson-Akande), Tinu Beecroft (Funke Akindele), Ireti Beecroft (Zainab Balogun), Nike Wiiliams (Shaffy Bello), Ekanem (Ini Edo), Femi Beecroft (Falz), Damilare Kofi Mensah (Mawuli Gavor), Teni Beecroft (Kate Henshaw-Nuttal), Aunty Ajoke (Rachel Oniga), Shoffa Donatus (Nkem Owoh), Madam Pat (Patience Ozokwor), Lady Kay Beecroft (Joke Silva).