The Minister of Power, Engr Abubakar D. Aliyu has said the federal government will complete the second phase of power transmission line that would evacuate power from the 40 megawatts (MW) Kashimbilla hydropower plant in Taraba State to Makurdi, Benue State in six months. Engr Aliyu said this yesterday in Markudi when he paid a courtesy visit to Samuel Ortom, Governor of Benue, as part of his working visit to inspect ongoing power projects in the state. A statement by the minister’s spokesman, Isa Sanusi noted that on the transmission line project from power plant, the minister said: “The project is in two phases; phase one is from Kashimbila to Yandev (Benue), and phase two is from Yandev to Makurdi. Part of phase two of the project includes the construction of 2 by 60 MVA, 132/33KV substation at Ugba. Construction of 2 by 7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station) at Zaki Biam. “Construction of 2 by 7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station) at Buruku. Construction of 2 by7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station at Anyii. Construction of 22.5km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Zaki Biam. Construction of 19.1km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Buruku. Construction of 36.5km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Anyiin,” the minister said. Engr Aliyu said while phase one is completed, phase two will be completed within six months, adding that his visit to Benue state is part of efforts to ensure timely completion of the projects. “Power is one of the areas that the federal government is giving much attention to. President Muhammdu Buhari’s emphasis on infrastructure includes the power component that will bring stability of electricity in Nigeria,” the minister added. Responding, Governor Ortom praised the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari as he confirmed the improvement of electricity supply in Nigeria. He said, “I am delighted by what the federal ministry of power is doing in Benue state and the visit of the minister and his team shows rare commitment to Benue state. I am now more educated about what the federal government is doing to improve electricity.” The governor also said the Benue State government was ready to support the federal government’s investment in electricity in the State and called for more cooperation among all tiers of government for the development of the power sector. The minister and his team visited the power station at Yandev and was conducted around the facility. Officials said the Kashimbilla hydropower plant was ready for operation and will begin to add 40MW to the power grid once the transmission line is ready.