Nigerians have taken to their social media account to air their views on the arrest of popular Lagos socialite, Obi Iyiegbu’s fondly known as Obi Cubana, by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. The NDLEA told Daily Trust that Obi Cubana may be prosecuted for alleged money laundering and illicit drug trafficking. I wish Dangote was my father, says Tiwa Savage Rivers community gets new leaders The CEO of Cubana Group has been under close raider since the lavish funeral of his mother in Oba Anambra state which took place on July 16, 2021. He is currently trending on Twitter, as some Nigerian youth opined that he could have been more cautious while others think the security agencies are going way overboard. The Twitter user @roqzee said, “Surround yourself with friends who can tell you the truth, every right-thinking person told Obi Cubana during that obscene display of wealth at his mum’s burial that he will make himself a target, Kanayo. O. Kanayo and the Igbo Twitter community kept mocking Obi Cubana’s “haters” that it’s poverty talking.” (sic) Another user of the microblogging site, @ akeula_trendy said, “All of you saying Obi Cubana made himself a target obviously don’t understand his business, just shut up and leave him to get himself out of the new challenge after all he didn’t call you for help.” (sic) For the Twitter user, @goodlucknero the socialite made himself a target of law enforcement agents. The Twitter user wrote, “I still stand on my opinion…..Obi Cubana made an error for coming out of “low key mode”. After the burial, he is supposed to return to his normal low key state, very soon nigerian security will accuse him of having links with Boko Haram. Everybody must cash out.” (sic) Also, @iam_elonel said, “ Those of you saying that Obi Cubana made himself a target are talking in the nonsense. When bullion van was discovered Tinubu’s house why was he not targeted by EFCC, NDLEA and co??”(sic) Other Twitter users are giving their diverse opinion on the arrest of the popular socialite.