 Some elders of Yewaland in Ogun West Senatorial District of Ogun State yesterday lamented that residents of the area now live in perpetual fear following the clash that erupted between farmers and herdsmen on Thursday at Imeko area of the state. At least, five persons were killed in the clash, while houses and other properties were razed at Idofa village. In February 2021, many residents of Yewa North and Imeko Afon Local Governments fled their homes and became refugees in Benin Republic due to incessant night attacks by suspected herdsmen, who killed and razed houses. There was a renewed clash last week with fresh killings and destructions of properties. According to the locals, the recent clash came at a time they thought things had got better between the host communities and the herdsmen; while they urged the government to nip in the bud the crisis. President of Yewa Think Tank and Vice Chairman of Yewa People Development Council, John Aihonsu described the incident as unfortunate and shocking. He said, “The issue is rather unfortunate and uncalled for because we thought things were getting better, but with the recent incident, we don’t know where we are. It’s rather shocking and dehumanising because we believe that this is not what we should be experiencing at this point in time. The authority should make sure the root cause of this issue is appropriately addressed to put a stop to such an incident forthwith. “We know what we suffered in the time past and we thought we are getting some respite, but unfortunately, the recent clash has thrown everybody into a state of fear and worry. So, it should be totally condemned,” Aihonsu lamented while he called on agencies responsible for maintaining law and order and other stakeholders to rise up to put an end to such ugly incidents. The Yewa leader lamented that the repeated clashes between herdsmen and the host communities have hindered development and triggered disunity. Aihonsu debunked allegations that Yewa elders and leaders have been docile and nonchalant over the crisis rocking the senatorial district.