The President of Ekid Peoples Union and former governorship candidate on the platform of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), Dr Samuel Udonsek, has described, Mr Otu Inyang, as a formidable politician and community leader. He said, “I received this news with great discomfort and sadness. I must say that this model of conflict resolution is uncommon in Ekid land. “I knew Elder Otu Inyang very well, back in our days of ANPP, 2000 – 2003, when he helped us build a formidable opposition party. “Late Prof Etuk Nssien Etuk, of blessed memory, regarded him rightly then, as a formidable pillar of his strong and resilient political empire and structure. “When we attended his thanksgiving service after his retirement, I got to know firsthand, how devoted he was to his native Ikot Udoma and the Qua Iboe Church. And, also how his people regarded and respected him. “On assuming the leadership of the Ekid People’s Union, we noted that his APC members were a bit distant from the union, so he was one of those we consulted, on how to make the union more inclusive for all, irrespective of political party affiliations. Sadly, he has died before this crucial task has been accomplished. “For me, and indeed the generality of the remnants of our old ANPP structure, a great friend and loyalist has departed. May God in his infinite mercies forgive whatever his human frailties were and accept his soul to eternal rest in paradise. “I pray God’s comfort on his dear family and loved ones, whose otherwise happy New Year’s day has been blackened by this unfortunate and brutal event,” he stated. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, SP Odiko Macdon, said it would be investigated and the culprits brought to book. Macdon said the Commissioner of Police, Amiengheme Andrew, has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police to carry out discreet investigation on the matter. “Yes, it is true that the man was shot dead on his way back home after the crossover service in his church. “The son reported to the police the following morning that the father and his mother were returning from church on 31st December and were attacked by two gunmen who shot his father in the head. “The Commissioner of Police, Amiengheme Andrew, has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police to investigate the matter and bring the culprits to book,” he stated.