The Sudanese national team have expressed their determination to stun the Super Eagles when they clash together in the second Group D game in the ongoing 2021 Africa Cup of Nations in Cameroon. Speaking during a press conference, the skipper, Yasine Ahmed, acknowledged the presence of top class players in Eagles team but said his team will go all out and compete against the three-time Africa champions. West Africa reigns, Referee Sikazwe debacle and other happenings in AFCON’s first round AFCON 2021: Nigeria finally finds a &#8216;Jay Jay Okocha&#8217; “It’s a very important game for us. We want to take points. They have top class players. They play in England, Spain, Italy and France. We want to compete and have a good game. It’s 50-50.” “Many people expect us to lose. In football, anything can happen. We want to go out there and compete. We want to make our fans happy and that’s the aim going into Saturday’s game. This tournament is very important for every player. It’s one of the best tournaments in the world. Nigeria is a very good team. We want to win. We won’t focus on one player. We will play as a team and family. We train hard, we want to prove that many things have changed. We have a young team. We try to pass and build something. Nothing will change against Nigeria. For us this game is very important,” he said. His position was collaborated upon by his coach, Burhan Tia, who said they have set objectives and are ready to achieve them. “We want to try and play football. We want everyone to enjoy watching us. The boys want to take something against Nigeria and we are determined to make things happen. We want to try to play football and the key thing for us is the three points at stake.” “We have set objectives and we are ready to achieve it. We know that Nigeria is a great side. They are going to be looking in good shape and we have a great team also. Nigeria played against Egypt and they won. It’s a football game and Nigeria is a great team known worldwide. They have taken part in many competitions but I want to say that the team want to win. “Nigeria have their own advantage, we know the team very well. This match is very crucial and we have mapped out strategies to get a positive result,” he said. 