Construction work on the portion of Sultan road, which leads to the Kaduna residence of President Muhammadu Buhari, was intensified ahead of the president’s visit, Daily Trust reports. Our correspondent reports that workers of Ronchess Global Resource Plc, the company handling road construction in the state, worked round the clock for four days to ensure the road was completed before January 20, 2022. It was gathered that Governor Nasir El-Rufai mandated the contractor to complete the section of the road leading to Buhari’s residence before the president’s arrival. Hours before the president flew into Kaduna from The Gambia, the road had been completed, with street lights installed as well as road signs. It was, however, not opened for commuters, but manned by security personnel. Our correspondent gathered from residents that construction workers were on ground day and night, for at least four days so as to deliver on the road. One of the workers who spoke to Daily Trust on condition of anonymity, said, “We have been working day and night to ensure we complete the road and I thank God we delivered.” Also, a gateman who has a small kiosk on one of the adjourning roads, Malam Yusuf Ibrahim, said he was shocked that the road could be fixed within such a short period. According to him, “As at last Saturday, that section of the road was under construction, a lot of work had not been done, only for me to see that a rapid project was being made and it was completed before the president arrived.” He added, “This shows that if the leaders are determined, the sky is their limit.” Buhari arrived Kaduna on Wednesday night and has since been inaugurating projects in Kafanchan, Jema’a local government area of the state. After the inauguration of some projects, Buhari commended the governor for “transforming Kaduna”. “If you had not been in Kaduna for sometime now, surely you would miss your road home just like me. El-Rufai has really changed the face of this state. I relocated to Kaduna after serving my jail term in the 1980s from Daura. I cannot find my way home with the current development,” he had said.