Director-General of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu, has described the Nigerian aviation industry as the “most improved” and “fully prepared’ for ICAO safety audits. He said this has been demonstrated in the increased confidence in the industry with more airlines coming on stream. Nuhu spoke while declaring open the annual NCAA sponsored League of Airports and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC) training at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT), Zaria. He disclosed that the country is set to undergo the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Universal Safety Oversight Audit Programme (USOAP) Continuous Monitoring Approach (CMA) in the first quarter of 2022. Daily Trust reports that the ICAO is expected to send its team of inspectors to Nigeria to assess the performance of the industry in terms of safety, among others. In the last audit conducted on the country, the sector recorded a pass mark. Daily Trust reports that in 2021, no fewer than four airlines came on stream while about 15 others are in different stages of acquiring their air operators’ certificate (AOC) which is a prelude to the commencement of commercial flights. The DG stated that with more airlines coming up and the existing ones expanding, the scope of surveillance activities of the NCAA had increased. Represented by an Assistant General Manager, Lulu Vongtan, the DG charged stakeholders and the media to continue to “present our aviation industry as the most improved that it is” more so as the country prepares for the ICAO audit. “There is no doubt that there is increased confidence in the sector as new airlines are coming in and existing operators are expanding their routes. “Expectedly, our coast of the surveillance programme and other oversight responsibilities as the regulator of the industry has increased correspondingly,” Musa said. He said the successes recorded by the industry were made possible by the firm support of the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Minister of Aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika, as well as the National Assembly committees on aviation. The DG reiterated that NCAA considered training (including initial, on-the-job and recurrent training) as a key component of aviation development in Nigeria. He disclosed that the agency is “fully prepared for the impending safety audits” in the first quarter of this year. “On the heels of proactiveness, existing regime of robust regulations and over eight years of zero accident in commercial flight operation, we are primed to excel again. “Therefore, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) appeals to all stakeholders, including the media, to join hands with us to ensure a successful audit next year. “From now on, all your reports are very sensitive. Let us eschew sensationalism capable of putting the nation in a bad light. “Therefore, I will advise anyone to endeavour to verify and confirm his/her stories before publishing, if in doubt. It is my view that your watchdog role plays a very important part in fostering stability in the industry,” he added. The rector of the College, Capt. Modibbo Alkali, represented by the Deputy Rector, Joseph Imalighwe who declared the course open, said the training is part of efforts to deepen safety in the aviation sector. He said positive reporting of the sector is critical to sustaining the safety rating already attained by the industry.