Barring any last minute change, the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will meet on Tuesday to finally decide on the convention date. A member of the National Executive Committee (NEC) who craved anonymity also confirmed to our correspondent that the committee would deliberate on the formation of various committees ahead of the convention. He explained that the budget committee would be constituted to determine how much the party would spend for the convention before other committees, including the zoning committee and publicity sub-committee, would be inaugurated. “The governors have spoken and the caretaker committee is meeting to do the needful. So just watch out,” he said. Meanwhile, Governor Buni met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, on Monday, where he briefed the president on the decisions reached by the APC governors during their Sunday night meeting in Abuja. Also, the Director General of Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF), Salihu Mohammed Lukman, has resigned as crisis rages over the national convention. Our correspondent reports that Lukman resigned on Monday, following a sharp division among the APC governors during their Sunday night meeting in Abuja. Sources close to him confided in our correspondent that he has already submitted his letter of resignation to the chairman of the Progressive Governors’ Forum and Kebbi State Governor, Senator Atiku Bagudu. Our correspondent learnt that some governors at the meeting wanted Lukman to either resign or be sacked, hence his resignation. It was gathered that while the majority of the governors wanted him to remain as the forum’s DG, others insisted he must go. Lukman’s phone number was, however, switched off at the time of filing this report when our correspondent called for comments. He was said to be controversial on issues concerning the party as some of the statements he issued appeared antagonistic to the top echelon of the party.