 The management of Jaiz Bank is collaborating with major drug dealers and the Kano State government in building the first drugs-only market in the country. The new market, which is to be called Coordinated Wholesale Centre (CWC), is a tripartite innovation of the bank, government and traders, with the hope of curbing the supply and distribution of fake and counterfeit drugs in the state. Jaiz Bank Managing Director, Hassan Usman, disclosed this in Kano on Monday at a workshop organised by the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PCN) and Kano State Ministry of Health to sensitise stakeholders about the new establishment. According to him, “The idea of the market, currently undergoing construction at Kano Economic City, Dangwauro in Kano metropolis, with our partners (Brains and Hammers) is to build a multi-billion naira world-class market, the first of its kind in Nigeria. “It is to provide a permanent seat for all pharmaceutical traders by providing the cold room for their storage. “There is also the presence of all relevant law enforcement agencies including NDLEA, NAFDAC, police and Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, who will oversee activities in the market. “We also hope to make the resources available to start even the production of these drugs in the country,” he added. The MD also said traders could obtain shops in the market by indicating interest and commencing payments in installments until they take their complete ownership. Similarly, one of the patrons of drug dealers in the state and member, the construction committee of the new market, Dahiru Abdullahi Matazu, said the market will be managed by Kanawa Pharmaceutical Partners, on behalf of the federal government. He said for so far, close to 700 shops have been completed, and are about to be commissioned soon. “We are optimistic that with this kind of establishment, sale and supply of fake and counterfeit drugs will be reduced to the barest minimum,” Matazu added. Kano State had over the years been declared as the epicentre of drug abuse in the country, with drug dealers accused of being the main peddlers. The state government has made several efforts to check the problem by relocating drug dealers to a separate market to ease regulation.