Iconic Nigerian entertainer, Oladapo Daniel Oyebanjo fondly referred to as D’banj has revealed that although he is happily married with two children, sometimes he misses being a bachelor. The self-acclaimed Kokomaster, who tied the knot with his sweetheart, Lineo Didi Kilgrow, on June 2, 2016, has always been the heartthrob of most of his female fans since he shot into the limelight with his hit song, Tongolo, in 2005. I only fly first or business class, Annie Idibia brags Nigerian tweeps react as Davido, Wizkid share heart-warming hug at club D’banj, further giving a sneak peek into his marriage stated that he married his best friend and this has helped his empire grow. He made this statement as he was unveiled as a judge on the music reality show, Nigerian Idol. The Kokomaster said as he revealed that marriage has not limited the number of ladies flocking around him, “It is very important for me when I say that I am so happy I got married for the right reason. There are reasons people do certain things and if one does it for the wrong reason, it would affect one. I got to a stage in my life when I needed to grow an empire and for one to do that, one has to be stable and have a best friend as a partner. “One also has to be true to oneself. I pray to God a lot and the Bible says, ‘He who finds a wife, finds a good thing’. I got married to my best friend, who knows and understands everything about me. Because of that, we could grow together. He continued, “Yes, once in a while, one misses those days (of being a bachelor). But, I am happy because that is the difference between Dapo Oyebanjo and Dbanj, the Koko Master. Whenever I get on stage anywhere, I become the Koko Master. It (marriage) has not reduced the number of kokolets (ladies) that flock around me and rush to the stage. However, one has to be committed to one person and that is what life is.” D’banj, who is the founder of the C.R.E.A.M initiative; which is a platform that provides creative minds with the opportunity to win the following: recording a standard song, shooting standard video, collaborating with artiste of their choice (music or video), talent showcase, talent branding, promotion and marketing (showbiz), entrepreneurship grants, educational scholarship, sports trials, etc; revealed why he became a judge on Nigerian Idol. He said, “This is the first time I would be a judge (on a music reality show). I have done several things through the years but this is the first time I would be doing something like this. “I accepted the offer because first, I am a Nigerian. Secondly, I think there is no better time than now because of the growth of the industry. The growth of the industry is such that we need to embrace what God has given us. This is a journey we have been on for over a decade and we have been accepted globally. That is why it is important to ‘grow’ what is on the ground.”