The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved contracts worth N64,686,536,230 for the construction of roads and bridges in various parts of the country, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, as well as the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Mohammed Musa Bello, announced this Wednesday while briefing State House reporters after the federal cabinet meeting at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Shehu, who briefed on behalf of the Minister of Work and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said FEC approved 15 projects, roads and bridges as requested by the ministry. He said: “One is for the award of contract for the construction of phase two of the Ikot-Ekpene-Aba to Owerri Dualisation project and this is at the cost of N40,157,000,000. It is due for completion in 30 months. “Another project for which he got approval is the construction of the Offa Bypass Road phase 2 in Offa Local Government Area of Kwara State. This project is for N4,335,000,000, due for completion in 12 months. “Another is the revised estimated cost of the rehabilitation of Alesi-Ugep Road section in Cross River State. The initial cost was N11.221 billion, now valued at N14.74, with an additional completion of six months. “The eleven other roads are spread across various geopolitical regions of the country.” The FCT minister, while speaking, said: “Today at the Federal Executive Council meeting, I presented one memo and that’s in respect of the contract for the completion of the road called Mpape to Galuyi to Shere Road within the Federal Capital Territory in Bwari Area Council and that road is to be constructed by Messrs Vipan Global Investment Limited at a total cost of N5,454,536,230.67 only. We expect that that road will be completed within 18 months. “That road has been under construction for some time and when we realized that the contract handling the project could not perform, the contract was terminated and we have reissued it to this new contractor and it is intended to open up the road leading Galuyi, Shere resettlement site, which is about 64% completed. “This road, when done, is going to allow us to move settlements in two phases. The first phase will be to move settlements within phase two of the city that are meant to go there and these ones are seven communities of Utako, Maje, Mabushi, Jabi Samuel, Jabi Yakubu and Panda and then Zilu.”