The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and Bi-Courtney Aviation Services of Nigeria (BASL), operators of Murtala Muhammed Airport (MMA2) have promised to improve on their existing ties. The pledge came over the weekend when the Managing Director of FAAN, Captain Rabiu Hamisu Yadudu, led the agency’s management team on a condolence visit to the Chairman of Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), Dr. Wale Babalakin SAN on the recent demise of his father, retired Justice Bolarinwa Babalakin. Receiving the FAAN delegation at his Lagos residence, Babalakin expressed surprise over the visit of the FAAN management. “I was pleasantly surprised when I was told that the esteemed management of FAAN was coming to visit us. At that, I was expecting one or two persons, but to receive the whole management of FAAN in Lagos here today, I am very touched and I am most grateful.” Daily Trust reports that the FAAN and Babalakin’s BASL have been having a running battle over the tenure of the concession of the MMA2 terminal, which has been a subject of consistent litigation that is yet to be fully resolved. But both MMA2 management and that of FAAN were however united by the demise of Babalakin’s father. “Through you, again, we repeat our gratitude to the federal government of Nigeria because he (the late Justice Babalakin) left the service 29 years ago and yet the president sent a high-powered delegation to condole with us. The vice president came to our home in the village. At the Fidaus, there were eight governors even though it happened within a week. So, we are eternally grateful to Nigeria. “And now for our own partner, FAAN, to deem it fit to come and pay us condolence, it is moving, it is touching and we are extremely grateful.” Responding, Yadudu said, “At this time, we must work with people that are working with us. The relationship is first. We are doing the same thing, we are delivering service to Nigerians, adding value to the industry, I think we should celebrate ourselves.”