Segun Showunmi, former Spokesman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate in 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar, on Thursday, asked President Muhammadu Buhari to use his authority to hand over the deplorable Lagos-Abeokuta expressway to Lagos and Ogun to jointly fix it and make it motorable. He noted that Ogun State has “too many federal government roads that are in a calamitous state.” He said this in a statement titled “Note to President Buhari as you visit Ogun State today (Thursday),” a copy of which was made available to Daily Trust. Buhari paid one-day official visit to Ogun, on Thursday and inaugurated some projects undertaken by Governor Dapo Abiodun. Showunmi, who is a PDP governorship aspirant, submitted that Ogun needs special consideration as far as federal roads are concerned. He said, “Mr President welcome to Ogun state, a land you are aware of from your years as a young military officer in Alamala. Over the years, I am happy that you have kept a good relationship with the people of Ogun. “Mr President, as a gateway state, we have too many federal government roads that are in a calamitous state. The Lagos-Abeokuta road passing through Ota which is a National industrial hub is really bad. I believe that if the federal government cannot help with this all important road, please use your authority to get it handed over to the dual states of Lagos and Ogun for us to take it over and fix it. The Ota-Agbara road linking Badagry is in a very sorry state, and this is a road that connects us to Benin Republic. Mr President that road is not befitting of our status. “The Sagamu-Ogijo-Ikorodu road is another road I wish to bring to the attention of the federal government. Mr President, please instruct your Minister of Works to give you a full and comprehensive briefing on the state of the federal roads in Ogun and you will agree with me that our state needs special consideration when it comes to federal roads.” Showunmi also challenged Buhari on curbing the activities of Customs officers at the border towns who “kill and maim my people with reckless abandon under the guise of chasing smugglers, and looking for smuggled goods.” He added, “Meanwhile, in connivance they allow known smugglers to escape and get into the country while they run riots in our town and villages chasing shadows at the expense of my people. Mr President, please read them the riot act that their responsibilities must be carried out with regard to human lives and peace of the citizens of the country.” Showunmi also asked Buhari “not forget your promise to land in our airport. Please help us make this promise a reality. There is enough justification for its viability and like you are aware you have given approval and funding for this airport. Mr President, it will remove a lot of pressure from the lagos-ibadan expressway and further open up our state economy especially with our proximity to Africa as an international gateway.” He, however, applauded Buhari for “the Lagos-Ibadan Rail which passes through Abeokuta.”