In this series, we have so far established the benefits of keeping our word and presented some of the ‘reasons’ why people don’t keep their word. We can now take up some of the ways we can develop, strengthen and protect our capacity to always keep our word. There are two elements to that: Those that have to do with the mind and those to do with the body. Those to do with the mind are: Understand and desire the benefits of keeping your word: The first step in beginning to fully and always keep our word is to understand and desire all the good that comes with it. As discussed previously, keeping our word is the right and honourable thing to consistently do. The benefits of having other people to unconditionally and always have faith in what we say have no quantifiable measure. Internalise the right philosophy: After understanding and accepting the immeasurable benefits of keeping our word, the next step is to internalise the foundational philosophy necessary for doing that. This means we become resolved to, at all times, discharge whatever and everything we agreed to. This implies that each time we make a promise, we unreservedly have a sincere and complete intention and commitment to fulfil it. Adopt the right principles: To be steadfast in keeping the promises we make, there are a few things that we have to be clear about, which are a fall out of the reasons why we don’t always keep our word. For instance, we have to believe in each promise that we make. So, before the clearing agent in the example last week commits to clear and deliver a consignment within one week to their client, the agent must sincerely believe that the job can be done as promised. Similarly, we should accept that sometimes we may have legitimate reasons to call for a renegotiation of terms we initially agreed to. The only conditions to this are that we should give as much notice as is possible and we must respect the rights of the other party and be honourable in the renegotiation process. Presence of mind: Often, we make statements without realising that we are actually making a pledge. In the example we gave last week, the affirmation a parent gives the child that asked for a bicycle is a promise to buy a bicycle. To achieve a one hundred percent fulfilment rate of our promises, therefore, we must be conscious of the implications of the words we utter and the written details above the dotted lines we signed on. Simply put, presence of mind, in our context here, is about being mentally alert to the things we say and promise to do to others. Set your standard: There are times when it is pragmatic and optimum to flow with the crowd. But there are times we must be willing to stand out and away from the crowd. Always keeping to our pledges is one area we must be ready to stand out. In addition, as you strive to do as you gave your word, demand the same standard from the people you deal with. Be consistent: There are areas in which it is desirable to compartmentalise our thinking and actions. However, in anything and everything to do with keeping our word, we must strive to be consistent no matter who or what is involved. That means we should make it to the wedding ceremony we committed to attend as punctually as we would attend a multi-million Naira business meeting with a client. That is to say we must take seriously each promise we make. Consistency disciplines the body and eases the mind while dissonance weakens the body and confuses the mind. The elements to do with the body include: Be organised: One of the chief causes of failing to keep our word is because we either think we can do what may not be realistic or we just want to appear to be busy either to ourselves or to others. This is both counterproductive and hurtful. While it may also be because we want to capture opportunities, it would, in reality, over time, only cast us as persons who fail in keeping their promise. The antidote to this failure is to be organised. This means we should be realistic about how much we can do over a time interval. Scheduling our ‘to do’ list is a very crucial task that we should take seriously. Give your word less often: Yes, we frequently have to give our word if we are to be able to seize opportunities. However, how often we give our word must match our capacity to discharge same while also retaining our sanity. Over-committing, given our individual capacities, time available and the resources we need to deploy, should always be avoided. Being able to say ‘no’ and negotiating for what is convenient and realistic are very crucial if we are to be able to always do what we say ‘yes’ to. Take small steps: Our ability to always keep our word should be developed the same way an athlete physically and mentally improves their mental discipline and motor controls. It is initially incremental and cautious and then ambitious later. This means we begin by giving less of our word but ensuring that we keep each. Gradually and with continuous discharge of the ‘small’ number of promises we make, we begin to take on and do more. While building this skill, the interesting and encouraging thing you will realise is that people will be a lot more understanding with your ‘no’ than you would have thought. Keeping our word is a demonstration of a congruence between our inner thoughts and outer actions. It is evidence of our integrity and good character. It is a long-term determinant of our honour, peace of mind and success. Next week we will take up a very important issue for entrepreneurs as private individuals and as businessmen and women: Regulatory Compliance.