Commercial tricycle business in Kano, also known as Adaidaita Sahu, worth over N920 billion, has been on the rise since 2005 and has continued to provide employment opportunities to many people. Since its earliest introduction into the transport sector in the commercial city in early 2005 and its popularisation following a ban on commercial motorcycles (achaba or okada) in the metropolis, the tricycle business has been witnessing rapid growth, bringing on its heels, the good, the bad and the ugly. With the estimated population of the metropolitan area placed at above four million, according to Macrotrends’ in 2021, and a very high percentage of this population living below $1/day, only a fraction of the population has private means of transportation. And in addition to a lack of mass transit scheme for the city, a majority of its residents are left at the mercy of the Adaidata riders, which further boosts the transport enterprise. Depending on who you ask; there is an estimated 70,000 of such tricycles plying the streets of Kano city on a daily basis, and a huge percentage of them have at least two operators on shift, putting the figure of those earning a living from the vehicles at over 100,000 persons, excluding the owners, mechanics, spare parts sellers and others. Accordingly, the Adaidaita business has given opportunity to many people, not only the riders, to earn a living or even become rich. Married women, businessmen, civil servants and many others have their own tricycles handed over to these young riders, who in turn file returns to them on a weekly basis. In addition to these individuals, the government also generates huge revenue from this industry through different forms of taxation, including the daily payment of N100 on every tricycle. But with the huge social and economic benefits of the industry, the riders have become a threat to Kano and brought a lot of challenges in the state, which relates to security, crimes, traffic jams and other health and environmental hazards like air and noise pollution. The recent three-day strike by the Adaidaita riders had brought about calls to regulate their services in the state and provide alternative means of transportation.  Industry creates job opportunities, generates revenue Over N921 billion revenue is being generated annually from Keke riding in Kano while it employs over 100,000 persons, an analysis of the revenue estimates indicates. According to an official statistics by the Kano Road and Traffic Agency (KAROTA), the number of registered tricycles operating in the city is 60,000, but the riders’ association put the number of the vehicles registered with the association at above 70,000. Findings show that averagely, each of the tricycle has two people working on it, with some having as much as four people operating on a shift basis. The state government is estimated to generate at least N6million internal revenue from the N100 per day tax levied on the officially documented 60,000 riders in the state. This is about N2.1bn annually. The riders themselves are estimated to generate an average of N300million. Some of the riders spoken to by Daily Trust on Sunday said they made between N5,000 and N7,000 on a daily basis. At N300 million, which is on a N5,000 daily earning, the riders would be making about N919bn on a yearly basis. Along with revenue generation by the state government, the tricycle industry fetches at least N921bn earnings every year. An economist from the Bayero University, Kano (BUK), Dr Yusuf Ibrahim, said that with the level of poverty in the state and Nigeria in general, both the people and tricycle riders were in dire need of each other as they make each other’s works easier and at a cheaper rate, as well as contribute to the growth of economy. “You will not find less than 200,000 people feeding from these tricycles in Kano. Averagely, 2 to 3 people use one. See how their welfare and bills were terribly affected. Sixty per cent of them have family. However, the problem is that tricycles do not have a long lifespan. After a year, it is tired. “What will also show you their impact economically is how their recent strike affected the connectivity between people going to various markets. The gross domestic product of the state has drastically been affected,” he said. Similarly, as most of the commercial tricycles in the state are operated on a hire-purchase system, the riders are expected to remit between N2,000 and N2,500 to the owners daily, which means that these owners also get millions of naira as income from the industry. Some housewives, for example, purchase these tricycles and distribute to riders and receive their money weekly, daily or monthly. This development has given chances to many people to open companies that mainly give tricycles to riders on hire-purchase, employ staff, pay tax, and get their profits. A resident, Sani Jibrin, who has seven tricycles distributed to riders on hire- purchase agreement, said that at the end of the year the tricycles would become their own if they did not default on the payment plans. “This is what we do. Some people have started giving me their own to look after; that is why I consider turning it into a company. Apart from the five that I have, there are six others owned by other people. “In the process, we have our capitals recycled. The business is generating huge income for us. The riders get their own tricycles to either sell or continue working with, depending on what they want to do,” Jibrin said. Also, dealers, spare parts sellers and mechanics, as well as fuel stations make money from the industry, among many others. A dealer in tricycles in Kano, Alhaji Auwalu Garba, who has a shop along the Muhammadu Buhari Way, said they sold three to four trucks daily, and each of the trucks carries 22 vehicles. “Each tricycle is sold at N950,000. But with the strike action by the riders, we hardly sold one in a day,” he said. With an estimated 60,000 tricycles paying taxes to the government and each costing N950,000, there is N57billion worth of the vehicles in the streets of Kano on a daily basis. Meanwhile, in almost every dealer’s shop there are other people who also earn a living by assembling new tricycles as they usually come unassembled. Ibrahim Shekarau, one of the people who assemble new tricycles, said that without the business he won’t be able to eat and feed his family. “Through this business I feed my family, clothe them and pay my children’s school fees, in addition to helping others. “During the three days of the industrial strike action, I only coupled two tricycles. “On a normal day, and when in the spirit to work, I and my boy can couple 22 tricycles. That’s one full truck in a day. If it is pieces—people coming to buy one and we couple for them, we do like eight every day. I alone have three people working under me. The complete coupling goes for N6,000,” he said. Spare parts sellers and mechanics, on the other hand, accommodate hundreds of youths to earn a living. When Daily Trust on Sunday visited the popular mechanic station known as Gidan Boss, along the Kofar Mazugal road, many tricycles were undergoing repairs. Many of the mechanics and spare parts sellers described the income generated from the industry as sustaining.  Environmental challenges Despite the economic and social benefits from the tricycle industry, it has been observed that it contributes adversely to the environment. The pollution caused by the carbon coming out of the vehicles is alarming and affects human health, experts have said. A lecturer who specialises on transportation at the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Bayero University, Kano (BUK), Dr Murtala Uba Muhammad, told Daily Trust on Sunday that the failure of government to regulate the transportation system was what led to the high number of the tricycles in the city, with its attending hazards. “A state like Kano needs to have a regulated mass transit, where you would have a few number of vehicles on the road that would carry a large number of people. But we have small capacity vehicles. See our population. We have many of them because each one carries few people. “The more the number of vehicles, the more the carbon to be emitted, and you know that carbon has a lot of implications – it makes the city warm and has a lot of harm on human health. “There is a lot of pollution that emanates from the vehicles. These gasses collide with other substances to also affect the oxygen, which cause difficulty in breathing for humans. “Also, when humans inhale carbon monoxide, it affects our lung,” he said. Dr Muhammad explained that a survey conducted recently showed that in each of 10 vehicles plying the streets of Kano, eight are tricycles, which is the reason they could not be controlled. “The state government is not totally unaware of these dangers we have mentioned because a lot of research were conducted and submitted to them for action. “There is also a law that needs to be passed on transportation, which limits the number of vehicles to operate. The law and research directed where, how and when tricycles have to operate,” he added. Another lecturer from the same department, Yusuf Idris Garba, said the number of tricycles could not be predicted as they are being registered on a daily basis, adding that a metro rail system would be the best solution to the problem. “The number of tricycles in our streets is beyond control, and it leads to pollution, which affects human health. If we are looking for decent and reliable transportation system for a populated city like Kano, we must come with a developed system, not tricycles. If really you want to sanitise the system you don’t need tricycles on the highway,” he said. Security threats Aside the environmental challenges, the industry has also distorted the security situation of the state, thereby causing a lot of harm in the system. On many occasions, accusing fingers have been pointed at tricycle riders in Kano for various crimes, including phone snatching, thuggery, armed robbery and kidnapping. A security expert, Auwal Bala Durumin Iya, said the youth, who dominate the industry, constituted the highest security threat to the state. He said regulating the business had become necessary in order to have adequate security in the state, “but it will lead to another spate of insecurity, which has to do with unemployment because obviously, the number has to be reduced in order to have control. “The security implications are enormous. The riders are plenty, and if they do not get the opportunity to ride, it will increase the antisocial vices we are complaining about.” A traffic warden working along the Ibrahim Taiwo Road, who chose not to be named, said, “People think we are always disturbing the riders, but to be honest with you, they don’t respect traffic and driving rules. They drive anyhow, causing accidents and damaging vehicles. I will recommend that they should be trained before giving licences to drive.” Daily Trust on Sunday reports that almost every car owner in Kano had at one time or another had encounter with Keke riders, which left their vehicles damaged. Mass transit to start month end – Govt To check the excesses of the Adaidaita Sahu riders and improve the transport sector in the state, government has announced that it was coming out with a mass transit scheme by the end of January. The managing director of the KAROTA, Baffa Babba DanAgundi, told Daily Trust on Sunday that the strike action by tricycle riders for the second time in the state had increased the demand for an alternative means of transportation in the city. The riders had earlier gone on strike in February 2021. He said the strike was to the advantage of the Kano State Government because it understood quite well that they had to engage the services of mass transit; and the governor has given directives. “Some of the riders have become a problem to the state because 99 per cent of crimes committed in the state are with the help of these tricycles. That’s why we have a serious concern about them,” he said. On the reason for the strike, DanAgundi said, “Paying for permit annually is what is becoming a problem. A rider gets averagely N1million but cannot give the government N40,000, including the daily ticket of N100 and renewal. “The government has provided security, roads and many social amenities, plus the light they need to operate, even up to 12 midnight.”  By Zahraddeen Yakubu Shuaibu & Salim Umar Ibrahim, Kano