First Bank will be rewarding 416 customers with prizes for their sustained use of the Firstmonie Wallet, a mobile payment application developed by the bank. The Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Folake Ani-Mumuney, in a note about the ‘Firstmonie transact and win’ campaign, which started in November and ending next Saturday, said customers who transacted using the app at higher volumes won several prizes. She said that in the first phase, which was just concluded, 208 customers were rewarded, while another 208 customers would be rewarded with various prizes when the campaign ends on January 22, 2022. The breakdown of the winners’ list so far indicates that those who transact more stand more chances of winning higher prizes. The bank said 100 people won the N10,000 cash each, 53 people won 25kg bags of rice, 50 people won standing fans and two persons got 2.5 KVA power generating set. Continuing, she noted that one person had one air conditioning set, while two persons who transacted over 50 times using the app within a month won iPhone 12. Some of the winners commented on the gestures after they redeemed their prizes at their various branches. Aminu Yahaya, a winner of iPhone 12 and customer of the bank at Darazo branch in Bauchi State said, “I want to thank First Bank for finding me worthy to win this iPhone 12. Thank you so much.” Another winner, Nnanna Onyedikachi, a student of the University of Abuja, Gwagwalada, said he used Firstmonie Wallet and was amazed when he got a message that he won an iPhone 12. “Fortunately for me, I won an iPhone and they have sent it to me. I thank First Bank. I was told that I qualified for this offer but I didn’t believe it, so I was shocked when I saw the prize,” he said. Eze Emmanuel won a bag of rice by using the transaction platform. “I appreciate the bank for winning this prize,” he also said. Chukwu Chisom, who won a set of air conditioners at the Oji River branch of the bank in Enugu State said, “This is a big surprise from First Bank; I didn’t expect it.” In his comment about the campaign, the group executive, e-business and retail products, Mr Chuma Ezirim, said, “This promo is hinged on the need to appreciate our customers for their patronage, especially as we have had an increased engagement and usages of the various services offered by our mobile-friendly wallet product.” Speaking about the conclusion of the campaign next week, the bank’s spokesperson, Ani-Mumuney said, “The same set of prizes will be given at the second phase, billed to end on January 22, 2022.” The bank said it was heralding a cashless transaction drive that extends to having more than 12 million people on its USSD Quick Banking Service while it has over 5.2m people using the FirstMobile platform. According to the note, the bank said it had over 750 business locations and over 147,000 banking agents spread across 99 per cent of the 774 local government areas as it strives to promote financial inclusion. Ani-Mumuney further said the Firstmonie Wallet was an electronic wallet that allows individuals the convenience of making and accepting payments electronically with their mobile numbers. “This is a tool used by developing countries to enable individuals participate more fully in the global financial system. It eliminates the need to carry a physical wallet by storing customers’ payment information securely and compactly,” she noted. Also, in a view to leverage on the projected 2.7 per cent growth of the Nigerian economy this year by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the bank said it held a virtual session where economic experts converged on Thursday to brainstorm on the Nigerian economic outlook. The virtual event set the tone for the year by providing an opportunity for participants to learn directly from economic experts to stay informed and knowledgeably empowered to make the right decisions in their socio-economic activities in 2022, which will be impacted by the micro and macro-economic activities of the country. The bank, citing the IMF report, said the projection was based on an expected recovery in crude oil prices and production and Nigeria will see economic activities normalising. “Key economic activities to watch out for in 2022 include global market trends, removal of subsidies and floatation of the Naira. However, recoveries in the oil sector and maximisation of the e-Naira could help keep the parallel market in check,” it noted. Participants at the virtual session include the managing director/chief executive officer of Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Bismarck Rewane, executive director, First Bank of Nigeria Limited Treasury and International Banking, Ini Ebong; chief executive officer of RTC Advisory Services Ltd, Opeyemi Agbaje, among others. “The webinar provides a platform for cross fertilisation of ideas and opportunities to learn and grow.  Nigeria is a country rich in human and natural resources, which helped in the reforms and resilience reflected in the economy in 2021,” Ani-Mumuney added.