The National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) has said it is making plans to procure an aircraft N219, two helicopters and hangar equipment from the PT Dirgantara of Indonesia. The Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive (EVC/CE) of NASENI, Prof. Mohammed Sani Haruna, said the agency has the approval to acquire the know-how from Indonesia on the development of civil and military aircraft. He spoke on Thursday in Abuja, while receiving the Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia, Dr Usra Hendra Harahap who led a delegation to the agency on a visit. Haruna said the federal government’s approval to the agency extends to the development of armoured personnel carriers, other equipment needed by the military and technologies for the production of fertilizers from locally available resources. He also said the process of acquiring the technology is to first purchase it and then learn how it was assembled and the process of its production. “It is approved for us to acquire the knowhow from Indonesia on the development of aircraft both civil and military, the armoured personnel carrier and other equipment needed by the military and some technologies in the areas of fertilizer from locally available resources “The processes of acquiring the technology are for you to acquire it first to learn how to do the assembling and the process, the aircraft will be purchased to enable us to know how to assemble it and in the process, you are learning everything and gradually you will be able to produce different components,” Haruna said. On his part, Dr Harahap said, “We have the same aim, how to build our countries. Indonesia and Nigeria have a reciprocal transfer of technology, which is why on the aspect of technology we try to share, we need to transfer technology on how to build and maintain aircraft, maintenance and spare parts production. “The Embassy also received an update of quotation of weapon and vehicles for the Federal Government of Nigeria with the estimated value $57 million. “The Embassy is also aware that NASENI is intent to procure some product from PT. Dirgantara Indonesia such as Aircraft N219, hangar equipment and two helicopters. In this regard, the embassy is seeking clarification for PT. Dl for the estimated value of the products,” said  Harahap.