The 75 coronet obas whose promotion and appointment had been validated by the Ogun State High Court have called paramount rulers in the state as well as the former member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Ladi Adebutu, to wade into the crisis with the state government with a view to resolving it. A state high court sitting in Abeokuta had in November affirmed the appointment of the 75 coronet obas installed by the former governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun. Amosun had upgraded the 75 village heads to coronet obas nine days before the expiration of his administration. But on assumption of duty, Governor Dapo Abiodun set up a committee, which reviewed and recommended that the promotion of the traditional rulers from Baale to Oba be reversed. Miffed by the development, the 75 obas dragged the governor and other officials of the state government to court, asking for their reinstatement and payment of their entitlements. However, the monarchs met with Adebutu in Iperu-Remo, calling on him and his father, Sir Keshington Adebutu, to intervene in the crisis in order to ensure the government sheaths its sword and recognise them as obas in their domains. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, the secretary of the monarchs, who is also the Olu of Ipebi, Ijebu-Imushin, Oba Tanimowo Folarin David, said the meeting was to seek Adebutu’s intervention with paramount rulers for their recognition as traditional rulers after winning the court case. When asked if he was aware of the appeal by the state government, Tanimowo said, “As far as I’m concerned, I have not been served any appeal notice. If there is going to be any appeal, personally as the leading person in the case, I will be served and up till this present moment, I have not been served and I don’t have any idea about the appeal”. On his part, Adebutu noted that assigning constitutional roles to traditional rulers would revive the local government system which according to him had failed due to overbearing interference from the state governors.