Amidst uncertainty over the February convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the chairman of the party’s reconciliation committee, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, has said his committee is still working to resolve the impasse in the party. Addressing journalists in Abuja after a meeting of the committee, he said the party will soon be heading to the South West to meet with stakeholders as part of its assignment. The former governor of Nasarawa State said the committee had visited Kano, Kebbi, Gombe, Adamawa and Bauchi states all in the North as part of its assignment, adding that they have listened to the complaints of some of the stakeholders and have tried to resolve them. “We had a meeting this morning, the essence of the meeting is to take a look at what we have done before the Christmas and New Year break and hone our plans for the second phase of our activities as a reconciliation committee. “It is our hope that from January 6, we will leave Abuja and start the South West states where we will have meetings with the elders and stakeholders of the party in those five states. We will be in Lagos and Abeokuta; we will visit Osun State. “Then we will take the South East and the South South. It is our hope that by January 19, we will have been done with this. We will have a retreat to look at what we have been able to do and to see how we can capture it in the preparation for the report,” he said. On the progress so far made by the committee, the chairman said, “When you are resolving problems, issues pertaining to human behaviour, you don’t talk about ‘I have achieved this, I have not achieved that’, the fact that we listened to complaints, we tried to resolve the complaints the best way we can is progress.” Asked when the committee will conclude its assignment, he said they are working towards month-end. Other members of the committee are the Minister of Special Duties and former Benue State governor, George Akume; former Enugu State governor, Sullivan Chime; former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; and the Third Republic governor of Jigawa State, Saad Birnin Kudu. Also, a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Oluranti Adebule, Secretary to Kebbi State Government, Suleiman Argungu, and Commissioner for Health in Cross River State, Beta Edu, are members of the committee, while Moses Adeyemo is the secretary.