One year after the Igangan incident where the youths led by the Yoruba Nation agitator, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, evicted the Fulani leader, Alhaji Saliu Abdulkadir and his people from his settlement, some people in Igangan are saying  they remain eternally grateful to Igboho whom they described as their saviour. Agoro of Igangan land, Chief Salaudeen Kolawole who spoke with Daily Trust during a visit to Igangan one year after the town in Ibarapa North Local Government of Oyo State came into limelight, said the community is praying for the release of Igboho. He, however, added that the attacks on farmers have reduced, saying, “Farmers can now go to farm without fear or intimidation. We can say we are relieved after their eviction and we are grateful to Sunday Igboho for making this possible.” Daily Trust reports that Igboho who is one of the protagonists in the whole crisis is still in detention in Cotonou, Benin Republic after he was arrested on July 19, 2021, while attempting to flee to Germany. Since then, he has remained in detention despite efforts by some Yoruba nation agitators to secure his release. Chief Kolawole said, “We don’t have any power over Sunday Igboho’s detention but it is our prayers that he will be released as soon as possible. “Sunday Igboho is our saviour in Igangan. He is a man of the people and the Yoruba people are solidly behind him for his agitation for the people of the land. We hope and pray he would have his freedom very soon.” Also speaking, Mr. Jabele Tunji Omodewu Francis, a popular youth leader in the town said Sunday Igboho’s ordeal would soon be over,  saying he is only facing prosecution for standing by his people. He said he is optimistic that Igboho would soon be free just like other agitators like him. Mr. Jabele said, “Sunday Igboho is paying price for standing by his people. He is not alone in this struggle. Look at what is happening to Nnamdi Kanu (the IPOB leader). I’m sure very soon, he will be free.” He added that he has no regret for inviting Sunday Igboho to the town. He however stressed that he is not against any reconciliation effort by the government as long as the marauding herders killing and intimidating his people would no longer have a place in Igangan.