Abdulmalik Tanko, the proprietor of Noble Kids Nursery and Primary School, Kawana, Kano, has been arrested over the death of Hanfia Abubakar, a five-year-old pupil of his school. The pupil was abducted at Kawaji community in Yankaba area of Kano metropolis in December. Hanifa was reportedly abducted on her way home from an Islamiyya school in the company of other pupils. She was said to have been whisked away in a commercial tricycle, locally called Adaidata Sahu or Keke NAPEP. The reports of her abduction had sent a wave of shock across Kano as many residents took safety measures seriously. Her abductor later demanded N6 million ransom from the pupil’s parents. According to Wasila Dahiru, Hanifa’s abductor was arrested, on Wednesday, while he was trying to receive part of the ransom. Hanifa was found dead, with her body cut into pieces and buried at a school premises located at Tudunwada.  Commenting on the incident, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, said after sustained efforts, a detective team combining the police and men of the Department of State Service (DSS), Kano, arrested Tanko, aged 30 years, and one Hashim Isyaku, aged 37 years old, both of Tudun Murtala Quarters, Nassarwa LGA. He said during interrogation, Tanko confessed that the victim was his student at a private school in Kwanar Dakata, Nassarawa LGA. He said kidnapped her and took her to his house where he contacted her relatives and demanded a ransom of N6 million. “On the 18/12/2021, having realized that, the victim recognized him, he claimed to have poisoned her to death, conspired with one Hashim Isyaku, ‘m’, took and buried her in a shallow grave located at the private school premises located at Kwanar ‘Yan Gana, Tudun Murtala Quarters, Nassarawa LGA, Kano State,” the police spokesman said. He said Hashim also confessed that sometime in November, 2021, the principal suspect, Mohammed, met him and one Fatima Jibreel Musa, 27 years old, of Layin Falaki Tudun Murtala Quarters, Nassarawa LGA, and ordered them to kidnap Hanifa. The suspects led a combined team of DSS Operatives and Kano State Police Command’s Medical Team to the scene. The body was exhumed and taken to Mohammed Abdullahi Wase Specialist Hospital Kano, where it was examined and subsequently released to the relatives for burial, according to Islamic Rites. He added that case will be charged to court upon completion of investigation.