Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has expressed confidence of winning the 2023 presidency. Tinubu is one of the few presidential aspirants, who have publicly declared their interests. After Tinubu openly declared his presidential bid at Aso Rock, more aspirants have done so, both within the ruling APC and opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). When he visited Senator Rashidi Ladoja, a former governor of Oyo, at his Ibadan residence during the weekend, Tinubu said with the masses, he could win. He added that he was aware of the challenges ahead, but expressed optimism that he would emerge victorious. “Life is a challenge and you must be ready to confront challenges and overcome. I have the confidence that I will overcome any form of challenge. I am sure I would face challenges and I have the confidence that I will overcome them.” “The reactions of critical stakeholders to my presidential ambition have been very positive, encouraging and overwhelming and these have spurred me on with the strong conviction that we would succeed and emerge victorious after the election. “Life itself is a challenge and I have the confidence and capacity to wade through challenges and overcome. We are forging ahead and with the strong support of the masses of Nigeria, we are going to achieve resounding victory.” Tinubu tours the north The APC National Leader also visited Zamfara, where he donated N50 million to victims of banditry. At least, 58 people were reported killed last week when bandits raided some villages in Bukkuyum and Anka Local Government Areas of the state. He commiserated with the people and expressed optimism that insecurity will soon be a thing of the past. After Zamfara is Katsina Tinubu also visited Katsina where he condoled with the government and people of the State over the death of Dr Rabe Nasir, Masari’s commissioner, who was killed last year. He said though the state was one of those affected by insecurity,  it should be understood that what happened to one state happened to all of the country. “Let us be vigilant, let us help our country, let us preach peace and offer advice to those who are determined to bring terrorism, kidnappings and evil doings to our midst to stop. We urge the government of Muhammadu Buhari to use all means necessary to eliminate these people. “We have a saying  in my native language of Yoruba says It is not easy to get to the seed of a palm kernel, but we are going support to the President to get to the cracker to get seed of evil out of the entire country of Nigeria,” he said. He saluted the courage of governor Masari and acknowledged the efforts of the Katsina business mogul, Alhaji Dahiru Mangal, and the Secretary to Government of Katsina state, Dr Mustapha Inuwa, in the fight against banditry,  saying Nigeria will win the war.