Nigerian comic actor, Imeh Bishop Omoh also known as Okon Lagos, has reacted to the video of Honourable Adbulmumin Jibrin, Director General, Bola Tinubu Support Group Management Council, who dismissed a question concerning the presidential aspirant. Jibrin while speaking on Arise Tv some days ago, was asked to inform Nigerians about Tinubu sources of wealth and his age. He argued that emphasis should be on what Tinubu has achieved, how he turned around the revenue of Lagos and infrastructural development. Aquaman Star, Jason Momoa, Wife announce divorce Buhari, Atiku, govs mourn as ex-Oyo gov, Alao-Akala, dies at 71 Okon, while reacting to Jibrin’s opinion on his Instagram post urged Nigerians to get their PVCs and not settle for any “recycled political ancestor that has passed his prime” He wrote, “TINUBU wants to be Nigeria’s president. A journalist asked his supporter, “HOW DID TINUBU MAKE HIS MONEY? And HOW OLD IS TINUBU?” Till this minute E no fit answer! For the Love of God and Country pls get your PVCs!!! Let’s not settle for any recycled political ancestor that has passed his prime. In the end, after a certain as death National economic shipwreck under his watch, he will say he did has don best for Nigeria. Shine your eyes ooo! Get your PVCs. “#endbadgovernanceinnigeria. In another post, he wrote. YOUTHS of NIGERIA, for the love of GOD and COUNTRY please ARISE! ARISE O!! Know that the day we are truly fed up, these men who think they own Nigeria as a private estate, will truly fade out!!! “If the energy of #endsars and #endbadgovernanceinnigeria protests and anger of the in-protest and post-protest injustices are not converted into an uncompromising stance in effecting positive change on Election Day, then it’s just going to be very sad, very unfortunate!” Nigerian comic actor, Imeh Bishop Omoh also known as Okon Lagos, has reacted to the video of Honourable Adbulmumin Jibrin, Director General, Bola Tinubu Support Group Management Council, who dismissed a question concerning the presidential aspirant. Jibrin while speaking on Arise Tv some days ago, was asked to inform Nigerians about Tinubu sources of wealth and his age. He argued that emphasis should be on what Tinubu has achieved, how he turned around the revenue of Lagos and infrastructural development. Okon, while reacting to Jibrin’s opinion on his Instagram post urged Nigerians to get their PVCs and not settle for any “recycled political ancestor that has passed his prime” He wrote, “TINUBU wants to be Nigeria’s president. A journalist asked his supporter, “HOW DID TINUBU MAKE HIS MONEY? And HOW OLD IS TINUBU?” Till this minute E no fit answer! For the Love of God and Country pls get your PVCs!!! Let’s not settle for any recycled political ancestor that has passed his prime. In the end, after a certain as death National economic shipwreck under his watch, he will say he did has don best for Nigeria. Shine your eyes ooo! Get your PVCs. “#endbadgovernanceinnigeria. In another post, he wrote,” YOUTHS of NIGERIA, for the love of GOD and COUNTRY please ARISE! ARISE O!! Know that the day we are truly fed up, these men who think they own Nigeria as a private estate, will truly fade out!!! “If the energy of #endsars and #endbadgovernanceinnigeria protests and anger of the in-protest and post-protest injustices are not converted into an uncompromising stance in effecting positive change on Election Day, then it’s just going to be very sad, very unfortunate!”(sic) See posts below:  