A group of Muslims under the aegis of Zumuratul Jamiu Mumin Society of Nigeria, has petitioned President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmed Lawan and the Works and Housing Minister, Mr. Babatunde Fashola over alleged plot to drive them from their land at Pakuro-Lotto on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. The group accused the contractor handling the rehabilitation of Lagos-Ibadan expressway of planning to construct an overhead bridge on their settlement, popularly known as Islamic City. Daily Trust reports that there has been a raging battle between members of the group and the contractor over the move to construct the overhead bridge which could dislodge them from the settlement. The decision, the group said, was an attempt to eliminate the only thriving Muslim community in the area. Amir (President) of Zumuratul Jamiu Mumin Society of Nigeria, Khalifah Issa Olayiwola and Secretary, Ustaz Ahmad Atanda, explained that the flyover bridge, would consume their six acres of land which houses residential buildings, schools, mosque, religious centres and the burial grounds of their founding fathers. In its petition, titled: “Objection to the construction of interchange design overhead bridge and the grand plan to clandestinely eliminate the Muslim community of Islamic City located on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Pakuro/Lotto Bus-Stop, Mowe, Ogun State, Nigeria,” the group stated that all attempts by the leadership of the Muslim community to prevail on the contractor to correct the imbalances proved abortive. It urged Buhari, the leadership of the National Assembly and Fashola to intervene in the matter and ensure that in implementing any design for the interchange, the land accommodating the city was spared. Khalifah Olayiwola said: “The Muslim community of Islamic City is just one of the minority land settlements within the numerous faith-based/religious settlements on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway populated by different Christian groups. “It has become imperative that we urgently bring to the attention of Your Excellency to what we consider a glaring injustice, religious oppression and intolerance and a deliberate ploy and grand design to cleverly eliminate the Muslim community of Islamic City from their current legitimate site using the construction of the interchange as an excuse. “We say this because the ongoing project, with respect to the overhead bridge/flyover and/or interchange bridge currently being embarked upon at Pakuro/Lotto Bus Stop of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Mowe, Ogun State, is one that has been shrouded in secrecy by the contractor undertaking the project. “It may interest your Excellency to know that Zumuratul Jamiu Mumin Society of Nigeria (ZJM) under our founder obtained its first Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) over the current location of land in 1993 from Ogun State government and the Certificate of Occupancy, dated June 16, 1993, was registered as 48/48/458 at the Lands Registry Office in Abeokuta over the parcel of the land measuring 1.446 hectares. “We want Your Excellency to prevail on the Federal Ministry of Works and the contractor undertaking the project to ensure that in whatever design of the interchange being implemented in the project, the land accommodating the Muslim community of Islamic City is preserved.” Daily Trust has spoken with the Lagos Controller, Works, Federal Ministry of Works, Engr. Olukayode Popoola, who said a decision has not been made on the interchange. He also said there was no religious consideration in the planned construction of the interchange, stressing that whatever decision to be taken would be in public interest.