Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Anambra State, have urged the Minister for Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, to join the 2023 presidential race. There is a possibility of the party to zone its presidential ticket to the South East and party members in the state want the minister to take advantage of the opportunity. The party faithful made their opinion known at Ngige’s country home, Alor, on Sunday. The motion for Ngige to contest for the presidency was moved by a former member of the Anambra State House of Assembly for Orumba North Local Government Area, Bar Okonkwo Okom, which was seconded by a member of the Federal Character Commission, Rev Dr Uche Ibeabuchi. According to Okom, Ngige has served as a governor whose performance has remained evergreen in the memory of the Anambra people. He said Ngige was able to demonstrate good governance, prudence and accountability in public service while he was the governor of the state. “He, as a senator that represented Anambra Central Senatorial District, delivered effective representation and ensured that the seven local government areas that made up the zone are connected to the centre through constituency projects and attracted government presence. “As a minister for two terms, Ngige has shown consistency in the Ministry of Labour and Employment which explains why President Muhammadu Buhari had to retain him as a very important member of the Federal Executive Council,” he said. Similarly, Rev Uche Ibeabuchi, stated that Ngige remains the leader of APC in Anambra State and the South East, noting that he battled against all odds to institute the party in the southeast. Endorsing the resolution, a former Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Chief Ozo Ughamadu, said Ngige is eminently qualified for the post of president. According to him, there is no better candidate for the position today than Ngige. In his reaction, Ngige noted that he is not unmindful of the demands of his party members, adding that he is qualified to contest for Presidency. He said that by the country’s political equation, it is the turn of the South-East to produce the next President of Nigeria, saying that the zone cannot achieve this alone without the support of other geopolitical zones. Ngige, however, appealed to the members of the party to give him up to Easter this year to respond to their demand, adding that he has to consult his family members, political associates and other stakeholders before then.