The police in Jigawa state have announced the arrest of members of a suspected kidnap gang, who are believed to be responsible for the killing of two police officers, the kidnap of a son-in-law to a businessman and other criminal activities within the north-west axis of the state. The feat was achieved following raids of three criminal hideouts in Dajin Maizuwo, Dan Gwanki and Yandamo villages in Sule Tankarkar local government area of the state. President Buhari commissions BUA three million metric tonnes cement plant Multimillion naira goods destroyed as fire guts Niger market The Commissioner of Police, Aliyu Sale Tafida, while parading the suspects at the Headquarters in Dutse on Thursday, said the feat was accomplished following intelligence report. Altogether, 14 suspects comprising 10 males and four females, including a suspect from Kaduna, were paraded alongside six children. Items recovered from the suspects are three AK-47s, nine Magazines, 308 live ammunition of 7.6mm, one General Purpose Machine Gun, (GPMC), N2m cash, Cutlass, six phone sets with nine batteries, 12 sim cards, five SD card memories, as well as one 28-seater Toyota Hiace Bus. Daily Trust recalls that two police officers – a Police Superintendent and an Inspector – were killed while trying to thwart the kidnap attempt on the son-in-law to Haruna Maifata, who is a popular contractor to the state government. The police chief confirmed that two of the rifles recovered from the suspects were the ones carted away from the two policers killed at Kwalam village in Taura local government area on Sunday while responding to a distress call. Tafida also disclosed that one of the motorcycles recovered belongs to one Abdu Isa Sajo, a Commander of a local security outfit called Yanbulala, who was also shot and killed by yet-to-be-identified persons in Kirikasamma local government area on Tuesday The officers, SP Anas Usaini and Inspector Sunusi Alhassan, were shot dead close to an improvised patrol vehicle, which was set ablaze by the gunmen. The police chief confirmed the rescue of one Hadiza Alhaji Chadi, 20, who was earlier abducted at Marmara village in Kirikasamma local government on January 8, this year. He disclosed that the suspects would be made to have their days in court once investigations were concluded. Tafida assured that the command would not relent in its aim of ridding the state of crimes and criminality while protecting their lives and properties. Similarly, he expressed appreciation to the people of the state, particularly, the government, for its support at all times, as well as sister security agencies for their collaboration and synergy.