A popular Nigerian social media influencer, Pamilerin Adegoke, has expressed his sadness over the fact that some ladies cannot afford some personal basic amenities like sanitary pads during their menstrual cycle. In a chat with Daily Trust, Adegoke said that this reality dawn on him and urged him to create the pet project tagged ‘Give A Girl Child A Pad’. Cubana Chief Priest Appointed Social Media Aide To Imo Governor AFCON: We won’t underrate Sudan – Eguavoen He said that having three female siblings, he can relate to the pains of ladies during their menstruation as he seeks to find ways to ease their pain during their ‘time of the month.’ He said, ‘’The economic situation in Nigeria is already bad enough and it is sad to realise that a lot of women and young girls can’t even afford something as basic as a pad, so my team and I came up with the idea to do the best we can to ensure as many girls as possible get access to sanitary pads.” Adegoke further blamed this reality on the dwindling economy in the country stating that some people cannot afford three square meals not to talk of getting a sanitary pad that would boost their hygiene. “Some of them can’t even afford three square meals and at the moment, the sanitary pad is expensive; hence why I decided to embark on this project. “It is pertinent to note that the first edition took place in Alapere Senior High School, Ketu where 1300 sanitary pads were distributed to secondary school girls and at the moment, the ‘Give A Girl Child A Pad’ have shared 1500 pads in Ibadan, 12,000 pads in Ogun state, 10,000 pads in Osun state, 8,000 pads in Abuja and a total of 15,000 pads in Lagos. He further stated that he would continue to do his quota to ensure that the girl-child is healthy and hygienic through his ‘Give A Girl Child A Pad’ initiative. “We will continue to do the best we can to help the girl child and let them know that they are not alone. In the coming weeks, the train will move to the South Western States in the country,” he said.