Mabel Makun, an interior decorator and the wife of Nigeria’s iconic comedian, AY, has revealed that she had three miscarriages without any medical explanation. The Ayo Makun family added a bundle of joy to their home as Mabel gave birth to a baby girl some weeks ago — thirteen years after they had their first child, Michelle. How I became ABU’s VC at 40 — Ango Abdullahi Lagos airport gets new immigration comptroller The family made the announcement to their friends and fans through their verified social media account. However, sharing her experience during pregnancy, Mabel noted that she had anal bleeding, difficulty in breathing among other things. Sharing an ultra-sound scan of the baby and some video snippets of her pregnancy via her verified Instagram page, the mother of two wrote, “This will definitely trigger my emotions, the plan was to close/open my eyes and make it all disappear but then again I thought to myself, Mabel you have to encourage someone out there. “Three miscarriages with no medical explanations as to the reasons why. It was the same pattern as before, every single thing that happened with the others happened again, only this time more but I was determined to hold on tight to God and not fail. “Anal bleeding, threatened miscarriage, difficulty in breathing, I wasn’t psychologically and mentally stable and that, was the hardest part for me, my emotions were all over the place, taking a deep breath in and out to stop myself every time I felt the urge to just break down and cry, struggling within not to blame myself for not protecting and fighting for the survival of the babies I lost, placenta separation, weak uterus. “Truthfully, I was exhausted. How I got here today is not something that I can explain but I just know that God was and is still with me and Ayomide; for this, we are eternally grateful. You are God all by yourself and you will never share your glory with anyone. “From the depth of my heart, I want to thank you all for the messages, prayers and yes, the love is overwhelming. God bless you all for me,” she said.