Dignitaries across the continent, on Saturday, stormed Gaya town in Kano for the coronation and presentation of staff of office to Aliyu Ibrahim Gaya (Kirmau Mai Gabas) as emir. The new emir succeeded his late father, Ibrahim Abdulkadir, who died on September 22 at the age of 91. The appointment followed the recommendation of the Kingmakers after presentation of three candidates from which Governor Abdullahi Ganduje approved the appointment of Aliyu Ibrahim Gaya. Until the appointment, Mr Ibrahim held the traditional title of Ciroman Gaya. The Chief Imam of Gaya, Tijjani Jazuli Gaya, administered the oath of office to the emir who swore to uphold the mantle of righteous leadership and to be an examplary leader and a father to the good people of Gaya emirate. While congratulating the new Emir, Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar II, preached peace and called for extreme prayers for leaders and the country at large. He wished the new emir, well expressing confidence that he will lead by the way his late father lived on social justice in accordance to the teachings of Islam. On his part, Governor Ganduje enjoined the emir not to let the system down and shun all temptations that will lead to compromise of integrity of the traditional system. He assured that his administration is ready to help in anyway possible to boost and uplift the traditional system. The emir expressed gratitude to the Almighty for giving him the lifetime opportunity to attain the  throne. He also thanked the Kano state government, the good people of Gaya emirate for finding him worthy to ascend the throne. He therefore called on the good people of the Emirate to continue to assist the council in discharging its duties accordingly. The Gaya Emirate is one of the four emirates created by Kano state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in 2019. Gaya is the oldest and most significant site in Kano’s history and precedes Kano emirate. Gaya is believed to be the origin of a man named Kano who first settled in the present Kano State on his search for ironstone. The earliest known settlers of Kano were known as “Abagayawa”. Gaya served as an important terminus of a migratory corridor through which there was an influx of immigrating peoples especially from Eastern Sudan, the Maghrib and the Middle East. Gaya was soon absorbed into the newly founded Kingdom by its adventurous new rulers and would become one of the most influential provinces in the state.