The Minister of Power Engr. Abubakar D. Aliyu says the federal government’s investment in Nigeria’s electricity is yielding result with improved grid and priority on completion of all ongoing power projects, adding that improved grid has significantly reduced the frequency of power systems collapse. He said this, on Tuesday, in Markudi, Benue State capital, when he paid a courtesy call on Governor Samuel Ortom. Aliyu, who visited Benue to inspect ongoing power projects, said the Federal Government is constructing a 40 megawatts (MW) Electricity plant from Kashimbila, Taraba to Yandev in Benue. “The project is in two phases; phase one is from Kashimbila to Yandev, and phase two is from Yandev to Makurdi.
Part of phase two of the project include the construction of 2 by 60 MVA, 132/33KV substation at Ugba. Construction of 2 by 7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station) at Zaki Biam. Construction of 2 by 7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station) at Buruku.” “Construction of 2 by7.5MVA, 33/11KV substation (switching station at Anyii. Construction of 22.5km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Zaki Biam. Construction of 19.1km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Buruku. Construction of 36.5km 33kV DC line from Ugba to Anyiin. “Power is one of the areas that the federal government is giving much attention to. President Muhammdu Buhari’s emphasis on infrastructure include the power component that will bring stability of electricity in Nigeria,” the minister added. Responding Benue state governor Samuel Ortom praised the administration of President Muhammdu Buhari, adding that there is an improvement of electricity in Nigeria. “I am delighted by what the federal ministry of power is doing in Benue state and the visit of the minister and his team shows rare commitment to Benue state. I am now more educated about what the federal government is doing to improve electricity,” governor Ortom said. The governor also said Benue state government is ready to support the federal government’s investment in electricity in Benue state and called for more co-operation between all tiers of government for the development of the power sector. The minister and his team visited the power station at Yandev and was conducted round the facility.