 The All Progressives Congress (APC) has fixed January 27, 2022 for its primary poll to pick its candidate ahead of the Ekiti State governorship election. This was contained in the party’s official notice issued by the Secretary of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed June 18, for the governorship election. Part of the notice reads: “In accordance with provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) guidelines, the APC has released a revised timetable and schedule of activities for the conduct of the 2022 governorship primary election in Ekiti State.” The party had pegged the expression of interest and nomination forms at N22.5 million. Aspirants are still obtaining their forms while others have already filled and returned theirs to the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. Power of incumbency won’t work  – Sen Olujimi Meanwhile, the senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, Biodun Olujimi, has said the power of incumbency will not work for the ruling APC in the forthcoming governorship poll in the state. The lawmaker stated this in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, at the weekend while distributing letters of employment to 25 Ekiti unemployed graduates. She expressed optimism that her party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), would win the election, adding that the party had weathered the storm before when it defeated an incumbent governor in the state. “We all know the tricks now. Some of us know the tricks because we have weathered the storm before. “Power of incumbency won’t work this time around because we all know each other. It won’t happen again because we will be proactive and ensure that nobody runs away with our votes. The people of Ekiti will vote and their votes will count,” she said. On power shift to the South, the PDP governorship aspirant said, “I am an unrepentant advocate of southern agenda, that power must shift to the South. The reason is for equity, fairness and justice for the zone and nothing more than that.”