The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Iyorchia Ayu, says the party will produce the next governor of Ogun State in 2023. Ayu told Governor Dapo Abiodun and the All Progressives Congress (APC) that Ogun State remains a PDP state, having produced the first PDP president in 1999. He spoke while addressing a large crowd of the PDP members at the party secretariat in Abeokuta. Ayu was flanked by members of the PDP NWC, former Governors, the leader of Ogun PDP, Hon Oladipupo Adebutu, the State Chairman, Sikirullahi Ogundele, among others. The Chairman said the APC government, both at the Federal and the states, have made life difficult for Nigerians and it is time to vote the party out of power. Ayu, who had met with former President Olusegun Obasanjo, said he would be returning to Ogun to mobilise PDP members across all levels, as part of efforts to unseat APC in 2023. He said “Ogun State is PDP. Ogun State produced former President Obasanjo in 1999. Did the PDP not give you good things when Obasanjo was president? Are you getting the same today? Do you want this type of change to continue? Are you going to change the ‘change’? Are you going to register today, tomorrow and next tomorrow? Register, go out and vote. “We want to change this party, that makes rice too costly for the common man, that goes about doing nothing when people are slaughtered in the villages. Is that the kind of party you want? “Today, I only came to greet my boss and our father, President Obasanjo. I didn’t know that all my people are here. I will come back to mobilise the people of Ogun State in every ward, in every Local Government because 2023 we shall produce a PDP governor in Ogun State…after which we shall produce a PDP president who will make things better for you.” In his remarks, Adebutu, who is PDP governorship aspirant, reiterated his commitment to the development of Ogun State. He said “I am sacrificing my comfort for you not because I need something to eat, but I want to create a better tomorrow for you. I will continue to sacrifice for you and I bring to you, this sacrifice and this solution. Let us be together. Do you agree with me? In his remarks, Ogundele noted that PDP is well positioned to unseat the APC-led government in the state in 2023. Ogundele said the state under Governor Dapo Abiodun has done “nothing to deserve reelection come 2023.”