The Lagos State government has faulted allegations that the newly introduced ‘no-vehicle inspection, no road-worthiness policy’ is an exercise targeted at generating money for the government. The Director, Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS), Engr. Akin-George Fashola, who stated this in an interview with newsmen appealed to vehicle owners in the state to come forward with their vehicles as the cost is already inclusive in the total package they paid for the renewal of vehicle particulars. Daily Trust reports that the state has commenced a policy of no vehicle inspection, no roadworthiness certificate. This replaced the former practice where people received roadworthiness certificates without taking their vehicles for physical inspection. With the commencement of the policy on January 1, 2022, vehicle owners going for renewal of documents were now being made to take their vehicles for inspection. One of the vehicle owners who spoke with our correspondent confirmed being forced to bring his vehicle before the renewal of its particulars. The Commissioner for Transportation, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde, had earlier said the new policy is geared towards making the road safe for all users and in line with the policy thrust of the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration. But the VIS Director disclosed that the old format of issuing roadworthiness certificates and then expecting the vehicle owners to come and present their vehicles for inspection within 30 days is no longer sustainable. He said most vehicle owners do not bring their vehicles for the said inspection once the certificate was issued. He said, “The referral note that we give when you come to us is just for a grace period that covers 30 days in which we expect you to have checked and fixed the vehicle. The referral note is not an automatic clearance.” Fashola further explained that the Vehicle Inspection Service is ramping up its capacity to accommodate more vehicles through the 27 fully-equipped centres with 30 more underway to cover the 57 local governments and local council development areas. He added that mobile testing centres are also available within the state for companies and owners of large fleets of vehicles. “You can go to any centres within the length and breadth of the state. Even if you do your first inspection on the mainland and you had to do your second inspection on the Island, you have no problem because they are all connected,” Fashola further stated. The existing 28 Computerised Vehicle Inspection Service centres, according to the director are at Ayobo, Oko-Oba, PWD, Lagos Island, Agric-Ishawo, Owode-Onirin, Bolade-Oshodi, Oke- Odo, Epe, Ojodu, Gbagada, Coker-Aguda, Yaba and Ajah, among others. The director commended motorists for their quick response as recorded in the numbers of vehicle inspection conducted between Tuesday 4th and Friday 7th January, which listed 388 at Ojodu centre, a far cry from what was obtainable before the 1st January 2022 commencement date of the policy. He however solicited more turnout from motorists, urging them to take advantage of the easy accessibility of the centres for their vehicle inspection and services.