The Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) has concluded plans to deploy the N5bn automatic aircraft firefighting simulator acquired in 2019. The simulator, the first of its kind in Africa, was acquired from Messrs Alpine Metal Tech Company with Minister of Aviation Senator Hadi Sirika and heads of aviation agencies carrying out the factory acceptance and pre-shipment inspection test in April 2019. The facility is a modern multi-scenario fire-fighting simulator capable of delivering training for different types of operational incidents involving aircraft in the aerodrome and its vicinity. It has full complements of about 28 possible fire/non-fire scenarios carried out including cabin fire simulation, cabin smoke, lavatory smoke, and the likes. Other simulation tests include DHC 8 starboard engine, DHC 8 starboard undercarriage, starboard side, CRJ-900 starboard engine, APU, portside, A320 Undercarriage, A320 Port engine, Port Wing, fuel spill burn pit, internal fires, among the vast arrays of simulations it can imitate. Daily Trust reports that the facility was delivered to NCAT two years ago but without it being put to use since then. But the rector of the college, Capt. Alkali Modibbo in a chat with newsmen at the college in Zaria disclosed that the equipment would be deployed in April. He said the college has reached an advanced stage in accrediting the facility with the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Similarly, he added that the Boeing 737-NG full flight simulator, also acquired in 2020 and already installed in the college, would be deployed for use at the same time. “You need to have the international certification before the NCAA will now give you its own certification. “For example, you must have the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or EASA certification and the NCAA, based on one of those certifications, it will now issue you its own certificate.” On increasing the fleet of training aircraft, the rector said the college has enough aircraft to train its students with, but added that more aircraft, including two Diamond double- and single-engine aircraft, would be delivered between next month and April. One of the aircraft types to be acquired, he said, include a Magnus, a light training aircraft manufactured in Hungary made from carbon fibre and which uses petrol.