A former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani Kayode, has poured encomium on his third wife, Regina Hanson Amonoo, as she marks her birthday today. The couple who got married in 1997 and share a daughter together are still on very good terms despite him taking an ex-beauty queen as a new wife in 2014. Faze Loses Mother Barely A Year After Twin Sister’s Demise Meet twin stars making waves in Hausa entertainment sector Femi Fani Kayode took to his Instagram page this morning to praise and appreciate Regina on her birthday. In a lengthy post, the former minister expressed how much he still loves her and how he will never leave her no matter what. Sharing pictures of Regina, he wrote, “If I ever met an angel, it was you. If I ever had a loyal and true friend who, through thick and thin, was as constant as the northern star, it is you. If I was ever loved it was by you. If I ever had love to give, it was for you. You are everything to me and I will love you forever both in this world and the next. For 24 beautiful years, we have been one and until the day I die, we shall be as one. “I will never leave you. I will never stop loving you. I will never forget you. I will always stand by you.
May God continue to be with you and may He grant you many more years of peace, joy, good health, blessings and prosperity. May He strike down your enemies, curse those that seek to curse you and shame your adversaries and foes. May He bless those that bless you, meet your every need and cause you to flourish and excel. May He vindicate you and cause you to go from strength to strength. “May He enlarge your coast, exalt your horn and cause you to increase. May He make every crooked path straight before you and make a way for you even where there seems to be no way. I do not have the words to express just how wonderful you are and just how precious you are to me but you know exactly how feel. Nothing can ever come between us because we are one and so it shall always be. May the Lord reward you for your love and commitment to me and our beautiful daughter Remilekun. May He remember you at your time and point of need and in the day of battle and may He watch over you for good and not for evil. “May His angel guard you jealously night and day and may He cause you to prosper. May evil never come nigh your doorstep and may the Lord continue to be your shield, your glory and the lifter of your head. May you rise up to where you belong and may your star shine brightly. May you continue to be a blessing to all that is around you and a great source of inspiration and strength to those of us that love you. Happy birthday to my number one, my Queen, my mother, my dearest and most cherished friend, my counsellor, my advocate, my champion and my darling wife Gina.”