 Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State on Thursday accused President Muhammadu Buhari of neglecting his state in the scheme of things so much that the citizens have not felt the impact of his government. Ortom accused the president in his remark shortly after signing the state’s amended grazing bill into law at the Government House in Makurdi. “Mr President, Benue state is not enjoying your government that is why even your party members from APC are all coming to PDP because they are not sure of being part of your government. “Every day, even yesterday APC members in the House of Assembly have decamped to PDP because the impact is not there. The pains are too much, the economy is in a bad shape, the security is in a bad shape, everything is in bad shape,” he said. The governor also said that since he had been barred from seeing the president, the only means to communicate the truth which he had told him in the past and would continue to tell him is through the media. He noted that the 5000 sack of rice showcased in a pyramid to indicate that the Buhari’s administration was making a headway does not depict reality, stressing that the president has not achieved anything. “All those 419 rice pyramid; is that what will help Nigeria? Do policies that will help us improve our economy. The first thing you will do is to chase away the marauding Fulani men who are your kinsmen to stop harassing us so that we can farm and produce enough rice for Nigeria. “All those things (rice pyramid) are deceit, 419, they are not telling you the truth. So give us policies that will help us. I urge our people to get their PVCs and be ready to vote out this APC bad governance,” he added. Ortom further argued that all was not well with Nigeria as he urged the president to rise to his responsibilities. The governor added, “This government has not fought corruption the way we expected them to do in 2015. All the people they are prosecuting are just perceived enemies. “The fight is selective, there are former governors in the present cabinet who should be facing corruption trial but they are not. So which corruption are they fighting? Ortom continued, “Nigeria has scattered and we do not know what to do. Sycophants and mediocre who are around you, corrupt people that are in your government are deceiving you. “But I must tell you the truth that all is not well. You need to listen to us, you need to listen to the voice of the masses who elected you, because they may have been deceived, now we are sorry that we elected you as President of this country.” 