A secondary school student has reportedly engaged the services of his mother and some thugs to beat up his teachers for asking him to cut his hair. Daily Trust gathered that they stormed the Toyon High School, Ere, Ado-Odo, Ogun State and brutalise his teachers. The trend of assault on teachers remained unabated despite the mandatory undertaking forms recently signed by parents, as part of the efforts to curb the act of assault in the state. Daily Trust reports that in the last quarter of 2021, more than four teachers were beaten by their students and in some cases, in connivance with hoodlums. And on Tuesday, the act reared its ugly head again when a student, his mother and the hired thugs stormed the school, located in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State, and descended heavily on three teachers, inflicting injuries on them. Our correspondent gathered that the student identified as Joshua Joseph had earlier been prevented from entering the class because of his hairstyle. A teacher identified as Mr Kabir Azeez had told the student to go and cut his hair before entering the classroom. But Joshua was said to have returned to the school with his mum and a thug, who attacked the teachers. A source said: “Three teachers were beaten – Messrs Abel Thomas, Kabir Azeez and Adegun Adekunle. “The car that was destroyed belongs to Mr Jolayemi Jeromu. One of the thugs, Posu Baale, was the one who smashed the car’s windscreen.” The Vice-Principal, Mrs Mariam Onilogbo, confirmed the development. She said: “On Monday, we asked our student to go and cut his hair because the hair he brought to school was not acceptable in the school. “Yesterday (Tuesday), he came again with that same hair, we told him to go and cut the hair. I collected his bag and told him to come back after cutting the hair. “Coming back to school, he came with two men and two women to accuse us that why should we ask him to go and cut his hair. “I know I told them that if we cannot tell him to cut his hair, all of them should leave my office. “I gave them his bag and told them to go and be teaching him at home. “They went out and I started to hear noises within the school premises. They started beating the teachers. They smashed the windscreen of a car parked within the school. “Yesterday evening, they came to our quarters again, claiming that we stole their phone. “They almost attacked us. We told them their phone is not with us. They came to meet us again this morning, but we thank God no one was attacked.” The Vice Principal added that the mother and one of the thugs have been arrested by the police. It was gathered that the teachers invited the police after locking up the suspects in the computer room. When contacted, the Police spokesman in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, told Daily Trust that he has not been briefed on the incident. He promised to find out and get back to our correspondent. Parents had signed undertaking forms before their children were allowed into their respective classes when Primary and secondary schools pupils resumed for the 2nd term 2021/2022 academic session. The state government had mandated all parents and guardians to sign an undertaking in view of the assault on teachers across the state by students. Our correspondent obtained a copy of the undertaking form signed by the suspect’s father, Joshua Sunday, declaring that the son would be “well behaved and not engage in any act of violence/misdemeanour that can disrupt the smooth running of the school in any form whatsoever.”