The suspended chairman of the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-corruption Commission, Muhuyi Magaji Rimingado, has joined the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Speaking to Daily Trust on Sunday, he said he joined the opposition party because of the alleged political mess in Kano. Rimin Gado said while he has not made up his mind about contesting any elective position in 2023, consultations were ongoing. He said his posters flooding the streets of Kano state is an indication that the people acknowledge the “good work” he did when he held helm as the anti-corruption boss. Rimin Gado said it was within their rights to advocate for him to come back in a different way to further serve the state. “I was formerly in APC. I started active partisan politics in 2004 then in APP, where I was appointed local government vice chairman in 2007 and later contested the North senatorial zone under APN, which we eventually lost with the present senator, who was then in ANPP. “In 2015, when there was a merger, we formed APC and eventually when election was held, the present governor (Abdullahi Umar Ganduje) appointed me to be the chairman of the anti-corruption commission. I had to quit active partisan politics because of the nature of the job. “So, when I was suspended, I took interest in active politics again and that’s why I joined PDP.” On his choice of the opposition party, Rimin Gado said he believes the party is in the best position to deliver the state and country from the “retrogressive policies” of the ruling APC. “I understand that PDP is the viable option to the political mess we have found ourselves in Kano because if you look at the scenario, it is like a jungle justice politics that is playing out in the state. “Based on my experience of having participated in this government, the operators here in Kano don’t mind public opinion as far as what they want to do, that is why we have a lot of negative PR,” he said. Daily Trust recalls that Rimingado was suspended in July, 2021 for a month over his alleged opposition to the posting of an accountant to the agency from the Office of the Accountant-General of the state.