The membership revalidation of a former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of FSB International Bank Plc, Alhaji Mohammed Hayatu-Deen, yesterday reunited the camps in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Borno State. At Forsham Events Hall, Maiduguri, Borno State, where Hayatu-Deen’s membership of the PDP was revalidated, the two camps of the party agreed to team up to ensure victory for the party in the 2023 general elections. Alhaji Usman Baderi, a former chairman of the party in the state, said PDP in Borno was now united. He said, “We are one in PDP at all levels. The storm is over. The state’s Chairman is Zanna Gaddama. We have since buried our differences in the state.” Also speaking, Gaddama, said all the members of the party were now working together for the actualisation of the PDP’s victory. While assuring that all would be carried along in the party, he said, “PDP doors are open to all aspirants for any position, be it presidential, governorship, senatorial or others. No discrimination. On election day, we will fast to ensure that our votes are counted.” Secretary of PDP in Borno State, Ali Aliyu, said the party remained the only option for Nigerians. He said, “The crowd here today did not only send a signal to APC, but we are giving them a quit notice not only in Borno Government House, but also in Aso Rock.” The leader of the party in the state, Muhammad Alkali Imam, said, “We will support him (Hayatu-Deen) to actualise his ambition 100 per cent. From today, I’m no longer the Leader of the PDP in Borno State; he is and we will give him the maximum support to succeed.” Addressing the crowd, Hayatu-Deen said he joined the party to join hands with like-minds to address the challenges bedevilling the country. He said, “One of the commendable traditions of the PDP for most of its governing history lies in its ability to foster a climate conducive to cross-fertilisation of ideas, openness and debate. “I will therefore give it my all and strive to place matters about the economic well-being of the Nigerian people, as well as the burning issues of insecurity afflicting our communities all over the country at the centre of the party platform. “For all of the above reasons and much more, I give my solemn pledge that I will donate the full measure of my energy and devotion as a member to advance the interests of the party, my beloved community and the country that I love so dearly.”