The national chairman of the All Progressives Congress Caretaker Committee and Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, is to lead Gombe State Governor Inuwa Yahaya, his Borno counterpart, Babagana Zulum and Senator Kashim Shettima to Senator Danjuma Goje’s residence in Abuja this week. This is aimed at concluding Inuwa and Goje’s reconciliation. Sources said this was the “second leg” of last Wednesday’s meeting held at the Abuja residence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu where Inuwa and Goje were reconciled. The frosty relationship between Inuwa and the former governor got messier last November when the latter’s convoy was attacked by thugs in Gombe. The following day, Goje’s daughter, Hussaina, resigned as the state’s Commissioner for Environment and Forest Resources. Few weeks later, many ward executive members of the APC from Yamaltu/Deba Local Government Area of Gombe State resigned their positions to protest the attack on Goje’s convoy. A source at Wednesday’s meeting told journalists in Abuja yesterday that the next meeting “is to reorganise the party’s structure in Gombe State. He said Inuwa and Goje agreed that the party’s congress, conducted in the state, be realigned to accommodate Goje’s supporters. The source, who is a federal lawmaker, said: “You would recall that there was a meeting at the residence of Senator Abdullahi Adamu in Abuja on Wednesday last week where Governor Inuwa and Senator Goje were reconciled. That meeting was also attended by a former governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima, a former governor of Enugu State, Sullivan Chime, former speaker of the House of Representatives, Honourable Yakubu Dogara and other chieftains of our party. “The meeting asked Governor Inuwa and Senator Goje to sheath their swords. In fact, the party leaders at the meeting appealed to both of them to allow peace to reign in line with Islamic teachings. “The meeting also resolved that the congress of the party, which was conducted in Gombe State, be realigned to accommodate Senator Goje’s supporters. The governor and the senator agreed to this. This was the second phase of the outcome of the peace meeting. “So, it is expected that the reorganisation of the party structure in Gombe State will be done during the meeting at Goje’s residence in Abuja this week.”