Some aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have dragged the Governor Buni-led Caretaker- and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee before a Federal High Court sitting in Abuja, over plans to hold a national convention in February. The applicants are seeking an order of the Court to restrain the Buni-led CECPC from going ahead with the convention. Already, the governors elected on the platform of the APC, known as the Progressives Governors Forum, have planned a meeting for this weekend in Abuja, at the Kebbi State Governors lodge in Asokoro. According to the chairman of the forum and Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, top on the agenda of the meeting is the national convention of the party fixed for February 2022. There has been a clamour for a change in the date of the scheduled national convention. In the suit dated January 4, 2022, the plaintiffs are Suleiman Dimas Usman, Muhammed Shehu, Samaila Isahaka, Idris Isah and Audu Emmanuel. Joined as defendants in the suit are APC, the Chairman, All Progressives Congress’ Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee and the Independent National Electoral Commission. In the case with suit number FHC/ABJ/CS/3/2022, the plaintiffs, through their lawyer, Olusola Ojo, prayed the court for an order to stop the convention on the ground that state congresses are yet to be completed in all the 36 states of the federation. The plaintiffs raised five questions for the court to determine and also sought eight declarative reliefs. Some of the reliefs the plaintiffs prayed the court for include; an order of the Court restraining the 1st and 2nd defendants from organising and conducting the national convention of the 1st defendant unless state congresses of the 1st defendant are first concluded in all the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. They also want an order of the Court directing the 1st and 2nd defendant to first conduct state congresses of the 1st defendant in Anambra state and Zamfara state before the national convention of the 1st defendant can be scheduled and conducted. In addition, they want an order of the Court restraining the 3rd defendant from giving approval effect to any action of the 1st and 2nd defendant to organise and conduct national convention of the 1st defendant unless state congresses of the 1st defendant are first conducted/concluded in all the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory. No date has been fixed for the hearing of the case.