From Aliyu M. Hamagam (Birnin Kebbi), Faruk Shuaibu &  Saawua Terzungwe (Abuja)  Crisis has hit the Kebbi State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), following the emergence of a factional leadership under a former Chairman of the party, Bala Sani Kangiwa. Kangiwa, was removed during the last state congress of the party. Speaking to Daily Trust on Monday in Birnin Kebbi, a top shot of the party and member of the new faction, Abdulllahi Mohammed Lamba, said the emergence of a factional leadership was enjoying the support of senators Adamu Aliero and Yahaya Abdullahi of Kebbi Central and North senatorial districts. He said the division became necessary following impunity in the conduct of the last state congress of the party. Lamba, who said his faction enjoyed the support of the majority of the people in the state, added that it is in control of all the 21 local government offices of the party. He said they only have to open a new office at the state headquarters because the one in use belonged to a member of the other faction. “There are some people who feel they have the absolute authority to dictate with or without the wish of anybody. Nobody can run a party without unity. “A committee for reconciliation was set up. We that are from the opposition came, seven in numbers under the leadership of Senator Adamu Aliero and Senate Leader Dr. Yahaya Abdullahi, but the reconciliation lingered for three months. So we decided to go parallel,” he said. All efforts to speak to the State Chairman of APC, Abubakar Kana Zuru, proved abortive as he did not pick calls to his number or reply to a text message sent to him. Also, Senator Aliero did not respond to a text message sent to him. Meanwhile, a federal lawmaker from the state has described the emergence of a faction as part of moves by Aliero’s camp to seek attention after losing its structure during the just concluded party congress. “Yes, that is what they are saying but that is after they have finished congress and others. You should do that before the congress so that you can go and do your own parallel congress and put people in place. Now that the move is after the congress, how do you put structure in place? I believe it is just to make noise,” he said. But a source at the APC national secretariat said the Buni-led national caretaker committee would move in fast to address the issue. “The caretaker committee is working round the clock to see that the party approaches the convention as a united platform. All issues trailing the congresses are being addressed,” he said. Meanwhile, a former member of the House of Representatives and Chieftain of the APC, Patrick Obahiagbon, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari and the top echelon of the party to propound a pathway ahead of the 2023 general elections. He also advised party members not to allow their personal and selfish interests to override the interest of the party. The lawmaker gave the charge on Monday in Abuja, in a letter of commendation to Buni, and made available to Daily Trust by the governor’s Director General, Press and Media Affairs, Mamman Mohammed.