The battle for the ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Ekiti State Governorship election today is between the preferred aspirants of the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and that of Governor Kayode Fayemi, Daily Trust reports. It is a battle between Sen. Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, who is allegedly linked to the Tinubu’s political camp in Lagos and Hon. Biodun Oyebanji, ex-Ekiti SSG, who is the alleged anointed aspirant of Governor Fayemi, Ekiti State Governor for today’s primary of the ruling party. Other aspirants that will slug it out include Sen. Dayo Adeyeye, the SWAGA national coordinator;   Hon. Femi Bamisile, Hon. Bamidele Faparusi, Engr. Kayode Ojo, Chief Sola Afolabi and Demola Popoola. At the stakeholders meeting chaired by the Governor of Jigawa State and Chairman of the Ekiti State Governorship primary, Alhaji Abubakar Badaru, promised that the election, which will be decided on an option A4 direct primary, will be free, fair and credible. Badaru called on the supporters of all the aspirants to be law abiding and follow the tenets of democracy. He described APC as one family, calling for the support of the party members to succeed as a team. “The option A4 direct primary is man or woman behind the posters of the aspirants in all the 177 wards, which means about 183,000 members across the state who registered in the party, will be voting for the aspirants,” he said. “Those who spoke at the stakeholders’ meeting included Dayo Adeyeye, Opeyemi Bamidele, Bamidele Faparusi, Okusola- Afolabi, Femi Bamisile.  They appealed for peaceful and credible elections. Meanwhile, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, has called for a rancour-free election. The Special Assistant on Media, to the Minister, Ifedayo Sayo, in a statement sent to newsmen yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, sued for peace amongst party members, urging them to conduct themselves in a peaceful manner. According to him, the primary is a family affair and nobody must stand in the way of the party in ensuring that the election is hitch-free and peaceful. He also called on the party leadership to ensure a level-playing ground for all the aspirants, saying equal treatment for the aspirants would make reconciliation easy at the end of the election. The former governor admonished the aspirants not to see the election as do-or-die, pointing out that they must put the interest of the party above other interests. Why I pulled out of PDP primary – Sen Olujimi Senator Biodun Olujimi (PDP, Ekiti South) yesterday pulled out of the governorship primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the Ekiti Governorship Election. Olujimi, while addressing newsmen, said her decision to pull out from the primary was informed by alleged irregularities during the accreditation of delegates. The PDP chieftain said that she could not be part of a political process that had excluded party delegates who are mainly her supporters, adding that the development runs contrary to the tenets of participatory democracy. Olujimi pointed out that the accreditation exercise was outrightly fraught with irregularities and sabotage with the list of delegates brought by Governor Udom Emmanuel-led electoral team allegedly doctored in favour of a particular aspirant. Raphael Ogbonnaiye, Ado-Ekiti