…No, he’s done more than you in Benue – APC Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State on Thursday accused President Muhammadu Buhari of neglecting his state in the scheme of things so much that the citizens have not felt the impact of his government. Ortom made the accusation against the president in his remark shortly after signing the state’s amended grazing bill into law at the government house in Makurdi. “Mr President, Benue State is not enjoying your government that is why even your party members from APC are all coming to PDP because they are not sure of being part of your government. “Every day, even yesterday APC members in the House of Assembly have decamped to PDP because the impact is not there. The pains are too much, the economy is in bad shape, the security is in bad shape, everything is in bad shape,” he said. The governor also said since he had been barred from seeing the president, the only means to communicate the truth which he had told him in the past and would continue to tell him is through the media. He noted that the 5000 bags of rice showcased in a pyramid to indicate that the Buhari administration was making headway did not depict reality, stressing that the president has not achieved anything. But in a swift reaction, the state Chairman-elect of APC, Comrade Austin Agada, said the allegations by the governor against President Buhari’s administration and his person could be best described, “as someone not in tune with the reality of what is on ground.” “It would be on record that the president created more programmes and projects in Benue than the governor himself did. I challenge a pictorial to this; on his achievement and that of Buhari in Benue. “As we speak, the president has over 40 projects only in Benue and about three projects he (governor) has done in over six years of his administration,” he said. Agada further said the Buhari-led administration had tackled corruption in the country better than anyone else, stressing, “How would you say the president is not fighting corruption when the president’s SGF was axed from office? “ He added that the president has zero-tolerance for corruption except that a lot of bottlenecks had not allowed him to move as fast as he would want to because of the democratic system in operation.