Investigations by Daily Trust reveals that fresh dust is gathering around the Electoral Act Amendment Bill rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari over direct primaries as the National Assembly resumes from Christmas and New Year break. The Federal Government has amended the charge against the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu, raising the counts from seven to 15 ahead of the hearing scheduled to resume on Wednesday. Angry passengers of Azman Air stormed the office of the airline in Kano, on Monday, over the cancellation of the 7am flight to Lagos. Fresh Dust Over Electoral Bill As N/Assembly Resumes Today Fresh dust is gathering around the Electoral Act Amendment Bill rejected by President Muhammadu Buhari over direct primaries as the National Assembly resumes from Christmas and New Year break, Daily Trust reports. Buhari had in a letter to the National Assembly, dated December 13, 2021, titled “Withholding of assent to Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2021”, withheld his assent to the Electoral Act Amendment Bill, citing economic, security and legal issues. FG Raises Charges Against Kanu From 7 To 15 The Federal Government has amended the charge against the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu, raising the counts from seven to 15 ahead of the hearing scheduled to resume on Wednesday. Kanu was facing a seven-count treasonable/terrorism count charge. His legal team, according to The Nation, said it was served with an amended 15-count charge filed on January 17, adding 10 counts to the counts in the old charge. Two Dead In 3-Hour Gun Battle Between Soldiers, Bandits Soldiers and bandits engaged in a fierce gun battle in Unguwar Musa Tudun Wada Kudansa in Maraban Rido, Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, in the early hours of Tuesday. Both sides suffered casualties in the encounter, which sparked tension in the community. The Village Head of the Community, Joseph Sauri Garba, who confirmed the incident to Daily Trust, said the gun duel between the bandits and the soldiers lasted 3 hours. PODCAST: How Prepared Are Nigerians For The 2023 Elections With 716 days to the 2023 general elections, how prepared are Nigerians, especially beyond social media rants? How many people actually have their voter card? In this episode of Nigeria Daily, we speak to some Nigerians, we look at reasons why every Nigerian should exercise their right to participate in electoral process. Click this link to listen to the podcast. What are you waiting for? Ozekhome Joins Nnamdi Kanu’s Legal Team As IPOB Leader Is Arraigned Renowned constitutional lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, (SAN), on Tuesday joined the legal team of leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, at the Federal High Court in Abuja. The federal government had filed an amended 15-count charges against Kanu bordering on treasonable felony and terrorism. Angry Passengers Storm Azman’s Kano Office Over Flight Cancellation Angry passengers of Azman Air stormed the office of the airline in Kano, on Monday, over the cancellation of the 7am flight to Lagos. It was gathered that the airline informed the passengers of the cancellation, via e-mail, a few minutes to the scheduled departure. Insecurity: Teni, Kemi Afolabi, Other Stars Who Have Been Attacked Recently The rate of insecurity in the country keeps getting alarming by the day, especially on the road. Moreso, these assailants do not care about who their victims are, either a layman or celebrity. Daily Trust highlights some celebrities that have been attacked by robbers recently on the road. Click this link for more. History Favours Super Eagles To Win 2021 AFCON – Kpakor A former Nigerian international, Moses Kpakor, has said the Super Eagles are favoured by history to win their fourth Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) title at the ongoing 33rd edition in Cameroon. After two important victories against Egypt and Sudan, the three-time African champions have qualified for the Knockout stage of the competition.