There was a cloud of uncertainty when the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Reconciliatory Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) met with the warring factions of the party in Ogun State, on Friday. Daily Trust reports that the two major factions battling for the soul of the state’s APC led by Governor Dapo Abiodun and his predecessor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, had last year conducted parallel congresses from wards up to the state levels. Both camps have been laying claims to the leadership of the party in the state. However, Adamu-led panel was set up by the Mai Mala Buni led Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the APC, to look into the crisis in the state chapters of the party including Ogun, ahead of the planned convention of the party. Our correspondent reliably gathered that the during the separate meetings with both factions in Ogun on Friday, Abiodun and Amosun – led groups were adamant, insisting on their stance to be in charge of the party. The much-touted sharing formula between the groups also reportedly hit the rock, it was gathered. Upon their arrival in Abeokuta on Friday, members of the committee met with Abiodun at the presidential lodge, Ibara Housing, Abeokuta. Other members of the Committee are former governors, Sullivan Chime, Ali Sa’ad Burnin-Kudu and former deputy governors Idiat Ranti Adebule (Lagos), Moses Adeyemo (Oyo), Secretary to Kebbi State Government, Suleiman Argungu, Cross River State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Betta Edu and Dr. Samuel Jimba, who is the head of the secretariat. Abdullahi later led his colleagues into a closed door meeting with members of the Amosun group at Mitros Residence in Ibara Housing, Abeokuta. The group paraded all the three serving Senators, Amosun (Ogun Central), Lekan Mustapha (Ogun East) and Tolu Odebiyi (Ogun West), former Minister, Iyabo Anishulowo, Jimi Lawal, who is an aide to Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State, among others. While briefing newsmen after meeting the Amosun faction , Adamu said the committee was optimistic that the crisis would be resolved . When asked if there is a sharing formula to appease the two factions, Adamu said, “ there is no sharing formula. “What to take home in the name of God and most sincerely is that we got here around 11:00am, we have been to the government house to greet His Excellency and to announce formally that we are in Ogun state on the mandate of our committee.” He however expressed optimism that the crisis between the duo would be settled, after listening to their grievances. Explaining what has been achieved , Adamu said “it Is a practice we have adopted to always talk first so that we can have the cracks of the issues raised, something to explain to us what was raised in their petition. “We have just accomplished that and after this, we would also go to the Governor’s side.” When asked if the committee was treating the petition , Adamu said “yes, we are here to treat the petitions. I am more than optimistic that all these will be resolved.” The Adamu – led panel shortly after meeting Amosun group headed to the presidential lodge when they met with Abiodun’s faction, in order to respond to the allegations raised by the former governor’s faction. The committee met with the Abiodun’s faction which paraded former Governors, Olusegun Osoba, Gbenga Daniel; Deputy Governor, Noimot Salako – Oyedele, the Speaker of the State Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo, three-time Governorship candidate, Gboyega Nasiru Isiaka, and other party stalwarts. Six serving Rep members, Adewunmi Onanuga, Jimoh Ojugbele, Ibrahim Isiaka, Lanre Edun, Jimoh Olaifa, Olumide Osoba, were also in attendance. While addressing Abiodun’s faction, Adamu assured all members of the party in the state that the Committee would adopt the principle of fairness, equity and justice in solving the crisis facing the party in Ogun. The former governor of Nasarawa state said the desire of the party at the national level was to have peace among its members in Ogun. “We are here with a mission of meeting our party members and to see the best way we can pilot the reconciliation efforts of the party “It is the concern of our party at the national level that peace prevail in this state. And we will do everything to ensure that nothing truncates that peace. “We owe the party a duty by ensuring that principles of fair hearing is given to all parties involved. We are not here for judgment,” he said. In his remark, Governor Abiodun acknowledged that there is bound to be friction in a party as big as the APC and lauded the party for choosing the path of reconciliation to guard against polarizing the party in Ogun. “This Committee was carefully chosen to further strengthen the party. It is important to continue to have peace and harmony among us. Though there is bound to be conflict here and there, we must continue to find a way to cooperate, and I am happy to have you with us today. We will cooperate with to ensure peace in our state”, Abiodun said. The governor who expressed delight with the caliber of people appointed into the Committee, said they were made up of committed party members who understand how party works, assuring that the Committee would have opportunity to meet with executive members of the party in the 20 local government areas to have a feel of what is going on in the state.