Segun Showunmi, the former spokesman to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate in 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar, on Wednesday declared his intention to run for 2023 gubernatorial polls in Ogun State. He is to battle a former member of House of Representatives, Hon. Ladi Adebutu, for the PDP ticket. Showunmi declared his intention at an Ogun Senatorial District stakeholders’ meeting, held in Abeokuta, the State capital. The meeting which was attended by some members of the South West Executive, including zonal Treasurer, Hon. Omotoyosi Ogunse, zonal Ex-officio, Gbenga Idowu, zonal legal adviser, Barr. Mosuru Olakupoyi, among others, passed a vote of confidence on the national chairman of the party, Iyorcha Ayu. The group also backed Showunmi to pick the party ticket for the next gubernatorial poll. Addressing members at the meeting, the chairman of the faction, Semiu Sobayo blamed the former national chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, or the crisis bedeviling the party in the South West. He commended Showunmi for rescuing the party from destruction under the control of Adebutu who he alleged to have pocketed the party in the State. Sobayo said, “Showunmi is the only person that we can adopt to become the governor of Ogun State. He is the only person that rescue Ogun State from the maladministration of the All Progressives Congress (APC).” Showunmi in his remarks, declared his ambition to contest the 2023 governorship election in the State. He charged the people of the State and Nigerians in general to vote out the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) come 2023. His words: “The call that I should contest for the seat of the governor is very loud, I have been hearing it from a lot of people in this country and even abroad. “I’m capable, more than capable, more than determined, more than able, more than knowledgeable, more than resourceful and more than ideological to rule this State. “If it is the wish of God and the desire of the people of Ogun State, I will never disappoint you. “I want to beg on behalf of all PDP leaders, starting from our national chairman, Iyorcha Ayu, to our zonal chairman Adogun Odo, I beg you in all their names, go to the grassroots and start the agenda to rescue Nigeria. There is no playing in this 2022 because whatever you have not done in 2022, don’t expect the result in February 2023. “Go to the units, go to the wards, go to the villages, go to the markets, go and tell everybody that what we are talking about is let us come together and rescue Nigeria from the hands of those who have been suffering everybody. This country has never had it this bad. It is not a question of abusing them, it is a question of sensitising the people”.