In this article, Daily Trust highlights five popular Nigerian celebrity couples with wide or unusual age differences and who have remained married despite their age differences. They have gone ahead to prove that age is just a number and what really matters is the love that is shared with each other.  Chief Razaq Okoya and Sade Okoya Billionaire industrialist and owner of Eleganza group of companies, Chief Razaq Okoya, and Nigerian fashion commentator and the MD/CEO of Eleganza group, Folashade Noimat Okoya, are the first couple on our list. Mrs Sade married Chief Razaq in 1999 when she was 21 and he was 59. The beautiful couple has been married for more than 20 years and is blessed with four children.  Olu Jacobs and Joke Silva Nollywood veteran stars, Oludotun Baiyewu Jacobs, popularly known as Olu Jacobs, and Joke Silva, are another power couple that found a love so strong despite the age difference. They met in 1981 at the National Theatre in Lagos and got married in 1989. Olu Jacobs is 19 years older than his wife, Joke.  Ned Nwoko and Regina Daniels Billionaire businessman and politician, Prince Ned Munir Nwoko, and Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels, found love despite the age gap. According to Ned, the duo met when the actress and her mother came for a tour in his house and he liked her instantly, which led to them marrying three weeks after. They tied the knot traditionally in May 2019 and welcomed a son the next year. Ned is about 40 years older than his wife, Regina.  Peter Okoye and Lola Okoye Popular Nigerian Singer of the Psquare duo, Peter Okoye, and his wife, Lola Omotayo Okoye, are another amazing pair. The couple started dating during the early years of Psquare’s career. The duo tied the knot in 2013 in a well-attended beautiful ceremony and they share two lovely kids together. Lola is 7 years older than her husband, Mr P.  Darey Art Alade and Deola Ayeni Nigerian singer and songwriter, Darey Art Alade, and his wife, Deola Ayeni, got hitched in February 2007. They share two beautiful children together and Darey is 8 years younger than his wife, Deola. 