Starting from February 15, 2022, shipment of goods referred to as “Dangerous cargos” would attract additional $230 for a 20ft container and $280 for 40ft container. The CMA CGM shipping company, which is one of the shipping lines operating in Nigeria, made this known in a statement it made available. In the statement, CMA CGM noted that the additional tariff would be imposed on any dangerous consignment being shipped into any West Africa country. Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that goods generally referred to as dangerous consignment include toxic items, explosive, flammable, infectious or corrosive properties. Goods in this category are said to pose heavy risk to public safety, property or the environment. They are also said to be substances that, when transported, are a risk to health, safety, property or the environment. The CMA CGM in the notice, which was issued last Thursday, stated that the additional tariff would take effect from February 15, 2022. Titled, “Dangerous Goods Additional to West Africa,” CMA CGM stated that cargoes (dry, reefer and specials) from North Europe, Baltic, Scandinavia, West Mediterranean, Adriatic, Black Sea, North Africa and East Mediterranean and destined for West African ports, are affected by the new tariff. Under the new rates, such goods will pay an additional EUR200 or USD230 on 20ft containers from North Europe, Baltic, Scandinavia, West Mediterranean. 40ft containers from the same destinations will attract EUR250 or USD285. Similarly, such goods from Adriatic and Greece are to cost an additional GBP170 and GBP210 for 20ft and 40ft respectively. Also, dangerous goods shipped into West Africa from the Black Sea, North Africa will attract EUR200 and EUR450 for 20ft and 40ft containers respectively. Similarly, tariffs for goods from the East Mediterranean to West Africa will cost an extra USD300 and USD450 for 20ft and 40ft containers respectively. According to the shipping line, the charge “Dangerous goods additional” is paid in addition to the ocean freight.