Sigma Pensions has emerged as one of the top all-round performing Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) across the pension industry. It recorded the highest number of top performances across the various Retirement Savings Account (RSA) funds. PFAs are regulated by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) headed by the Director-General, Hajiya Aisha Dahir-Umar. According to an analysis of data collated from the PFAs’ website on their operations for last year, four out of six Sigma-managed RSA funds finished the year 2021 as top-two performers across their respective categories. Unit price data collated from each PFA website and other sources revealed that out of 22 PFAs, Sigma Pensions was the best performing in Fund VI Active and Fund VI Retiree in 2021; 2nd best in Fund II and Fund IV and ranked 4th-best in Fund III. The data gathered focused on the unit price growth trajectory from December 31, 2020, which was compared to that of December 31, 2021, to obtain the best performing funds for the year 2021. According to the analysis, Sigma outshone its competitors in the newly introduced ethical fund (Fund VI), ranking the best performing and growing at 5.55 per cent for active customers, followed by FCMB Pensions and Premium Pensions, whih grew at 3.65% and 3.01%, respectively. And for the retiree base, it grew at 5.39%. Premium and Veritas grew at 2.02% and 1.50%, respectively. Fund VI was introduced by the National Pension Commission in June 2021 so this performance covers only six months instead of 12 months for the other RSA funds. Many other PFAs were yet to report unit prices for Fund VI as of December 31, 2021. In the retiree Fund IV, First Guarantee Pensions Limited was ranked above Sigma Pensions which was the 2nd best performing, followed by Crusader Pensions in the period under review, growing on average at 10.42%, 10.19%, and 9.86%, respectively. However, aside from Fund I which Sigma was ranked 14th, growing at 5.64%, the firm was ranked second-best in Fund II, growing at 9.95%, and 4th-best in Fund III growing at 8.90%, concluding an impressive overall performance across the various fund spectra. Other PFAs that were able to record the next best all-round performance were First Guarantee Pensions and APT Pensions in which each had two top-two performance rankings. First Guarantee had the best ranking in Fund IV and 2nd best in Fund III behind Veritas Glanvills Pensions while APT Pensions was best ranked in Fund II and 2nd- best in Fund I behind Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers. No other PFA was able to record more than one top-two ranking across the various funds.