The posters of a leading National Chairmanship aspirant of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Sani Abdullahi Shinkafi, has flooded the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The National Convention of the APC is slated for February 2022. The posters which carried Shinkafi’s pictures and name surfaced on Sunday in strategic locations across the FCT. Shinkafi, who is a former National Secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), had on 26 October 2021 declared his intention to run for the APC National Chairmanship. He had in his notification to the APC Acting National Chairman and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Malam Buni, stated that: “After wide consultations and discussions with family, friends and political associates, I have decided to heed the call to contest for the office of the National Chairman of our great party, the APC. “With my wide experience as the immediate past National Secretary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the immediate past Secretary of the Board of Trustees of APGA, I believe that I have what it takes to run the affairs of the APC.” He also said that: “I would want to continue with the great job done by the Acting National Chairman Malam Mai Mala Buni in re-organising and making the party the greatest party in Nigeria. “In its bid to retain power in the forthcoming general elections in Nigeria in 2023, there is an urgent need for the party to look beyond personal interest to set its house in order by first of all ensuring that only a credible hand is ushered in to lead the party as the next National Chairman.” He also noted that the internal frictions and wranglings within the ruling party made it lose elections in Bauchi, Adamawa, Rivers, Imo, Oyo, Edo and Zamfara states. Shinkafi also lamented that many legislative seats both at the states and National Assembly were lost as a result of poor handling of the party’s 2018 primaries. He pledged to turn the APC’s fortunes around to reclaim those states and retain where it won previously.