Nigerian gospel singer, Sammie Okposo has apologized to his wife for cheating on her. The music star took to his Instagram page on Tuesday to apologise to his wife and family. He wrote, “ Dear friends, I need to bring a very unfortunate incident to your attention as I am not proud of it but know that this is the right thing to do. Nollywood Star Stella Damasus Loses Mum Fast-rising star, Olakira bags deal with luxurious auto-mobile company, Maserati On my recent trip to the USA (late 2021), I got intimately involved with a lady, knowing that this was not appropriate as a married man and a minister of the gospel. I am ashamed and regret my actions as it has caused a lot of pain to my dear wife, Ozioma, my family and me. As I work in making peace with God, repenting and asking for his forgiveness, I am suspending myself from all ministry work until full restoration as this is what is proper and what I know I owe to God and his people.” He added, “Yo my wife Ozioma I am sincerely sorry I put you through this shameful embarrassing situation. I broke your trust and disappointed you. Your forgiveness of my moral failure and poor judgement is important to me. I pray I will eventually be able to build back the trust and confidence every single day for the rest of my life. “I want to take this moment to apologize to all my fathers and mothers of the faith and misters of the gospel for my behaviour and moral failure. I won’t be here if not for your investment and belief in what God has called me to do. I sincerely apologise for for this embarrassing situation.” Okposo’s apology comes shortly after a lady accused him of impregnating and abandoning her shortly after. A lady called, African Doll, in an interview with Obodo Oyinbo Tv accused the gospel singer of dating her for several months, on one of his tours in Dallas USA and immediately she got pregnant he changed his attitude towards her. She alleged that the singer asked her to get rid of the pregnancy, but because she refused he changed immediately.