A former Senate President, Bukola Saraki and former Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, (APC, Imo) have declared to run for the country’s presidency in 2023. Saraki, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), disclosed his intention to contest via his official Facebook page. The former governor of Kwara State, while replying to one of his followers on Twitter said; “As we prepare for the journey ahead, I hope we can all join hands to get the ticket of our great party, PDP, and build a nation that works for all of us. “Join me to make our communities safer and provide real opportunities for you and your families. I have a strong record of delivering and experience in making tough decisions.” On his part, Okorocha disclosed his presidential ambition in a letter addressed to Senate President Ahmad Lawan, which was read during plenary yesterday. Okorocha is the third chieftain of the APC to declare the intention to run for the presidency after Bola Ahmed Tinubu, former Governor of Lagos and Dave Umahi, Ebonyi State Governor. Unlike Okorocha, both Tinubu and Umahi disclosed their presidential ambition when they visited President Muhammadu Buhari at the Aso Rock Villa, Abuja. Contacted on why he did not go to the Villa to inform the president as done by others, Okorocha’s mobile phone was not reachable but one of his closed aides told Daily Trust that the former Imo governor would soon intimate President Buhari of his intention to succeed him. The aide, who preferred not to be named because he was not authorised to speak, said being a serving senator, Okorocha decided to inform his colleagues first before others. Okorocha made his first outing 20 years ago as a presidential aspirant under the platform of ANPP with Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, Chief Nnia Nwodo and Chief Harry Akande. Again in 2007, he ran under the platform of PDP coming second to President Umaru Musa Yar’adua where the likes of Prof Jerry Gana, Gen. Aliyu Gusau and Gen. Buba Marwa were contestants. In the letter dated January 25, Okorocha also informed his colleagues of a proposed World Press Conference to formally inform Nigerians of his presidential ambition. Ismail Mudashir & Abdullateef Salau