Some aggrieved persons are currently on the streets of Gashua, headquarters of Bade Local Government Area of Yobe State, protesting the alleged killing of a truck driver by a soldier. The protesters, who are mainly youths, have lit up bonfires while heading for Gashua Police Division. An eye witness told our correspondent that a truck driver named Mohammed Gashua was shot dead while trying to avoid a filling station after seeing military trucks and some officers riding on motorbikes. He said the motorists were scared by the movement of soldiers and they attempted to run but the officers warned that they would fire shots at anyone who moved an inch. He said the driver, who could not withstand the sight of the soldiers, started running, and he was shot dead by one of the soldiers. A family source said the deceased has been buried in accordance with Islamic rites. The Area commander Bade Local Government Police Division did not answer calls at the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the Governor of Yobe State Mai Mala Buni, has reacted to the development. The governor in statement by his spokesman Mamman Mohammed, called on the Youths of Gashua to be calm following alleged shooting of a driver by security operative in Garin Alkali. According to him Buni has already directed for immediate investigation into the matter for necessary action. “He described the incident as unfortunate especially now that we are recording progress in sustainable peace across the state. Government and the security authorities would not tolerate any act of recklessness capable of disrupting our hard earned peace. I therefore assure you that government would properly investigate the matter and  deal with it decisively. “I also appeal to our good people of Bade local government area and the entire state to remain calm and law abiding. “We should avoid anything detrimental to our peace. You are advised to be good Muslims and take it as the will of Allah and avoid bonfire on the roads” Governor Buni was quoted to have said.