Popular socialite and businessman, Obinna Iyiegbu, popularly known as Obi Cubana, has fulfilled his promise to the Nigerian hawker, Ekuma Jeremiah, who was spotted giving prisoners his money and this has gained the reactions of many citizens. Recall that earlier in the week, a video had gone viral of a Nigerian hawker selling in the traffic spotted sharing his money to prisoners in the vehicle. The video sparked a lot of praises and contributions from Nigerians and also a scholarship to any educational level of his choice by Obi Cubana. ‘We’re praying for Sunday Igboho’s release,’ – Igangan Residents I can never return to your party, Obasanjo tells PDP leaders Taking to his Instagram page today, Obi shared photos of himself, Jeremiah, and his team and stated that he has kept to his words. He captioned it, “And God has remembered Jerry!! @jerryluck_ God used Rocky @rockyemmyphotography to make that video! And God used @daddyfreeze to connect me and Jerry! “He has collected his letter of scholarship from Cubana Group! Thank God, for His uncommon Grace! Mr & Mrs Afuah @iam_hymans who are based in Canada, we ran into ourselves last night at Cubana Lagos, and he introduced himself and said he wanted to reach out to Jerry. “We all met this afternoon here in Lagos. He has promised Jerry (and started paying immediately) a salary of 100k monthly from today till he is done with school! God has really remembered Jerry!!! “Do Good, be nice, be generous! God will definitely remember you someday… Thank you my people @ike_cubana @efosa101 @cubana_dodadistribution Mazi Afam Osigwe (SAN)” Some fans and followers of the socialite reacted to the post. @official4374 said, “I’m very happy for Jerry and those who made it possible. May God Almighty continue to bless you all” @yung_boss1 said, “Talk and do. Odogwu nwoke” Another Instagram user, @pamson_ti_joseph, said, “This is great for him please let the helping hands reach us as our arms are to help orphans and widows here in the northern Nigeria thank you” Similarly, @clementinaivy said, “Humanity at its best. May nature be kind to you all-the givers, the connectors and the receiver. Good job.” @alubone_tennis also commented, saying, “Naso God Bless Y’all / Little things is our Blessings”