Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, and his predecessor, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, have renewed hostility  over the outcome of the 2019 governorship election which saw Ganduje as winner. In an interview with the Punch on Sunday, Senator Kwankwaso alleged that Ganduje did not win the 2019 governorship election but was imposed on Kano people by powerful forces. The former governor also described imposition as the worst thing that could happen in a democracy, stressing that those behind Ganduje’s alleged imposition were  already regretting their action. Governor Ganduje had in a New Year message a few days ago, hinted that he was ready to reconcile with Kwankwaso. Kwankwaso also said Ganduje’s move to reconcile with him was a welcome development. The governor and some top government functionaries had also visited Kwankwaso over the death of his younger brother, Comrade Inuwa Kwankwaso. But reacting to the interview, Ganduje in a statement by the commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, said  contrary to the claims made in the interview, Kwankwaso “managed a well-organised election rigging network particularly in the metropolitan local government areas where the youths, mostly without even voters’ card were engaged to perpetrate the act.” Garba said it was unfortunate that “as a leader who was severally involved in the election process, Kwankwaso is still contesting the result of an election conducted by a statutory body and upheld by courts of law.” He said the attempt to rubbish the Ganduje administration has done Kwankwaso more  harm than good which completely negates the spirit of genuine peace and reconciliation he preached to his followers in the last few days. Malam Garba stated that Kwankwaso should have thanked Ganduje for completing many of the projects he abandoned, saying that the people of Kano were paying the price for the “unparallel policy of continuity” that saw the completion of many projects in the last six years in the state. Kwankwaso denies defecting to APC, as Buhari’s aide welcomes ex-gov A former governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has denied returning to the All Progressives Congress (APC). There were reports on social media yesterday that Kwankwaso had returned to the ruling party from the leading opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Following this, the Special Adviser on Political Matters to President Muhammadu Buhari, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, welcomed the former governor back to the party. Ojudu in a Facebook post said, “The news is everywhere that the leader of the Kwankwasiyya Movement, His Excellency, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso, has returned to our party, APC. I have not confirmed this yet but if true he is most welcomed. “This will also be the best move of his political career. A great mobiliser, brilliant organiser, and thoroughbred politician, Kwankwaso, is the leader of the red cap-wearing multitude. He will be a big addition to our movement for a greater Nigeria.” But reacting, Coordinator of the Kwankwasiyya’s Media Centre, Sanusi Bature Dawakin Tofa, told Daily Trust that the reports were untrue. There are speculations that Kwankwaso, who has been at loggerheads with Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has perfected plans to rejoin APC to team up with a former governor of Kano State, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, to create a stronger force that would humble Ganduje in the 2023 general elections. Shekarau, Kwankwaso, Ganduje’s social media teams meet No fewer than 30 social media activists from the Shekarau, Kwankwaso and Ganduje’s political camps on Sunday met in Kano, to sort out their differences and establish a common ground for peace. The convener of the initiative, Sunusi Abbas Garko said the union is aimed at bringing together future political gladiators to establish mutual understanding, respect for each other, sanitise their political move and  see others as brothers and sisters. “The meeting is aimed at fostering mutual and beneficial relationship among us and to eliminate ‘dirty’ practice of politics, respect each other’s opinion and to address issues that are important irrespective of our political camps. “It is a meeting of youths who are into politics promoting their political godfathers and interest,” he said. There is need to douse tension in Kano – Kofa A former member who represented Kiru/Bebeji federal constituency in the National Assembly, Abdulmuminu Jibrin Kofa, has asked major actors in the crisis rocking the Kano State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to sheathe their swords and embrace peace and reconciliation. Kofa, who is also the Director General of the Ahmed Bola Tinubu Support Group, gave the advice while addressing newsmen yesterday in Kano, after a special prayer session for peace. From Zahraddeen Yakubu Shuaibu, Salim Umar Ibrahim and Ibrahim Musa Giginyu (Kano)