The Super Eagles yesterday soared over the Wild Dogs of Guinea Bissau 2-0 at the Stade Roumde Adjia, Garoua to end the Group Phase in style. The three-time African champions had already qualified for the Round of 16 before yesterday’s match having defeated Egypt and Sudan. In the fourth minute, Guinea Bissau had the first free-kick of the game which was easily picked by Francis Uzoho who was making his first appearance alongside Jamilu Collins and Tyrone Ebuehi. Two minutes later, Nigeria had the first corner kick of the game which was dealt with by the opponent. The Super Eagles dominated the early proceedings of the game but the first real chance at goal fell to Guinea-Bissau in the 13th minute. The resulting action saw Uzoho and Mama Samba colliding. Nigeria continued to mount pressure but the Wild Dogs were all over the Super Eagles in their droves. However in the 17th minute, Sadiq Umar had the glorious chance of opening the scoring but his header from Nigeria’s first free-kick of the night was off the mark. In the 25th minute, Umar who led the frontline could have opened his goal account but yet again missed his chances. Gradually, the Guinea-Bissau side grew into the game and began to force the Nigerians into making some mistakes. In the closing stages of the game, fear gripped the Nigerian side when Jorge Fernando followed up on a rebound but his effort went past the goal post. On resumption, the Super Eagles continued the pressure and in the process forced Maurice Gomis into making a great save Umar finally broke the deadlock in the 57th minute but was immediately replaced by Peter Olayinka while Ejuke Chidera came off for Moses Simon. The introduction of Simon increased the intensity in the attack that was lacking in the first half. Moses Simon who became the tormentor in chief since his introduction created the second goal scored which Captain William Troost-Ekong converted in style. The goal was given after some lengthy minutes taken by the centre referee, Peter Kamaku to confirm from the Video Assistant Referee (VAR).