The Anambra State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has elected Chief Basil Ejidike as its chairman. Other officers elected were Ifeanyi Osegbue, Deputy chairman; Chidi Orji, secretary; Calista Nwachukwu, Treasurer and Chukwunonso Chinwuba, legal adviser. The party reaffirmed as Senator Andy Uba as new leader of the party in the state. The congress, which was witnessed by a committee set up by the national leadership of the party, led by Hon Friday Nwanozie Nwosu conducted the election through a voice vote, affirming Ejidike and members of his immediate past executive. Speaking at congress, Nwosu said the national leadership of the APC asked them to conduct the exercise. “We have a seven-member committee sent here to conduct this exercise, and the assurance is that the congress will be of your will and we will conduct the Congress according to your will.” “This is the authentic congress mandated by the national leadership of APC for this exercise. If you hear of any other gathering other than this one for the same purpose, it is because people have a right to meet, but they do not have the consent of the party.” he said. Also speaking Hon Chinedu Eluomuno, a former member of the House of Representatives, moved a motion for the affirmation of Basil Ejidike and his executives, and was seconded by Hon Charles Ezeani, a former member of the House of Assembly in Anambra State.
.
Ejidike, in his acceptance speech, on behalf of himself and members of his executives said he stand to accept his election as chairman. “I’m overwhelmed by joy on the decision to make us your leaders. We accept the daunting task, we will not betray the confidence bestowed on us.” “The essence of political party is to win election and advance the cause of their environment. We know this and we must put heads together to win election. We will begin another round of electioneering soon, and it is a wake up call for us to lead our party to victory and dominate the national assembly with our members from the state. “Today we have emerged as one firm family and ready to surmount every obstacle. Let’s bury our hatchet of yesterday and achieve the best for us. “We thank our new leader in the state, Senator Andy Uba. He has rescued and repositioned our party in Anambra State. I unequivocally thank you for your uncommon commitment towards moving the party forward,” Ejidike said.