Yeide, the wife of Grammy-award nominee, Seun Kuti, feels ecstatic as her husband turns 39 today. She took to her Instagram to celebrate him for being great and always rocking her world. She wrote “Happy Birthday my darling husband. This year ehn! I am short of words because you have finished me with so much love that I can’t begin to write how you make me feel. Okadas return to Kano streets as ‘Keke’ riders’ strike enters day 2 Ex-Daily Trust photographer, Oroye, dies “I’ll just laugh with all the wonderful Memories. I love you now and forever my king….thanks for being a great everything and rocking my world always.”(sic) The singer and his wife celebrated their first wedding anniversary on October 14, 2021. Seun Kuti and his wife, Yeide, has been in a relationship for 15 years before they got married in 2020. Before their wedding, they had a daughter who turned eight last year December. Moreso, Seun Kuti’s siblings and nephew, Made, shared a word of prayer for the talented musician on his birthday. Legendary afrobeat singer and brother to the celebrant, Femi Kuti, took to Instagram to share lovely photos of him, wishing him a happy birthday. Femi wrote, “HBD LLNP@bigbirdkuti Seun, sending you lots of love and best wishes.” Also, the big sister of the celebrant, Yeni Kuti via her Instagram page also wrote, “Happy birthday baby brother.@bigbirdkuti. I wish you all the best today and always. Have a wonderful day! Our Creator’s blessings on you.” His nephew, Made, was not left out of the celebration as he celebrates his uncle. Made Kuti wrote: “Happy Birthday Uncle Seun!!@bigbirdkuti. Massive love from myself and the movement. You’re one year away from 40.” Seun, the youngest son of the late legendary musician Fela Anikulapo Kuti, was born in 1983. He became interested in music at the age of five, by the time he turned nine, he had started playing with his father’s band, Egypt 80. Fela Anikulapo Kuti died in 1997 and Seun Kuti took to the role of leading Egypt 80. In 2008, the band released an album called Many Things. This was the first album released under the moniker Sean Kuti & Egypt 80. He is featured in Calle 13’s song “Todo se mueve” (Everything Moves), on their 2010 album Entren los que quieran. 