President Muhammadu Buhari, on Saturday, led Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, members of the National Assembly, service chiefs and members of the diplomatic corps to honour the country’s fallen and living military heroes. The event, which involved laying of wreaths at the National Arcade in Abuja, was the climax of the main activities lined up to celebrate the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day. First to lay the wreath was the president, followed by the vice president, the Senate President, Speaker, House of Representatives and Chief Justice of Nigeria. In another order, the Minister of Defence, Major-General Bashir Magashi (retd) and his Federal Capital Territory (FCT) counterpart, Malam Mohammed Bello, laid the wreaths. The service chiefs and members of the diplomatic corps also laid wreaths in honour of the fallen heroes. Buhari thereafter signed the anniversary register and released the ceremonial pigeons as a symbol of national peace. The celebration started with a series of activities, including a Jumma’at prayer on January 7 at the National Mosque, as well as an interdenominational church service on January 9. In the same vein, governors across the federation also marked the day. Ganduje calls for united, secured Nigeria The Kano State governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar  Ganduje, has called on the armed forces to rise to the challenges of insecurity in the country. The governor commended security operatives in the country for their selfless services in maintaining peaceful coexistence, urging them to work hard and ensure a united and secured Nigeria. Speaking after laying the wreath, Ganduje explained that with the honour given to past heroes, security operatives in Nigeria would take their responsibility diligently. Unity best way to reward heroes – Abiodun Also, the Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, yesterday said the best way to immortalise and reward the fallen heroes was to maintain the unity of the country. He called on governments and well-meaning Nigerians to see to the welfare of the children and spouses left behind by the heroes who fought for the territorial integrity and unity of the country. Matawalle cautions against divisive acts, utterances On his part, Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle of Zamfara State called the public to control utterances and actions that are capable of causing division and other security breaches in the state and the country in general. The governor gave the charge in his speech to mark the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration in the state. He observed that since the country is going through security challenges, people should not allow their negative thoughts overshadow the general interest of the unity of the country, which is paramount. PDP, Atiku seek more attention for soldiers’ welfare The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar have demanded more attention to the welfare of soldiers and their families. The PDP National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, in a statement issued yesterday, also demanded that the government provide the military with adequate equipment as well as improve on the welfare of the troops to ensure effectiveness in their duty to the nation. Similarly, former Vice President Abubakar said Nigeria’s military veterans can’t be repaid for their supreme sacrifices, but their welfare should be treated as a priority by any government. Lagos priortises welfare of veterans, fallen heroes’ families – Sanwo-Olu Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu after laying the wreath said the sacrifice made by the fallen heroes was supreme and marked the symbol of the nation’s unity. He charged members of the armed forces to continue to uphold the “fine traditions” bequeathed to the military by the departed soldiers. The governor had few days ago fulfilled a pledge of N50 million donations to the Lagos Command of the Nigerian Legion, in addition to employing over 5,000 military veterans as security guards across the State-own public schools, hospitals and government facilities. Yahaya Bello honours fallen heroes Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State also joined other leaders in paying the annual respect to men of the armed forces who lost their lives in service. Bello attended the 2022 Armed Forces Remembrance Day at the World War I and II Cenotaph in Lokoja, where he laid a wreath in honour of the fallen heroes. Addressing newsmen at the event, the governor reiterated his administration’s commitment and support to the servicemen and families of the fallen heroes. Banditry: Informants our biggest problem – El-Rufai Speaking at the Remembrance Day in Kaduna, Governor Nasir el-Rufai said informants were posing a great challenge in efforts to rid the state of banditry. The governor noted that the informants were living within communities in the state. “I think it is important for religious and community leaders not only to raise their advocacy but to also watch out for people that seem to be spending a lot of money without any clear means of livelihood (they are probably informants of kidnappers) and report to the authorities nearest to them,” he said. He expressed appreciation to the armed forces and the police who are losing officers and men daily to the war against banditry, and assured them of government’s support, not only in resources but also in prayers. Bauchi governor solicits continued prayers for fallen heroes The Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, has also called on all and sundry to continue praying for the country’s fallen heroes and the families they left behind. Mohammed made the call at the wreath laying ceremony yesterday in Bauchi. He said soldiers had given their lives for the country, even as many are still fighting to keep Nigeria united. Legion seeks empowerment of widows of ex-service men in Kaduna The acting chairman of the Nigerian Legion in Kaduna State, Colonel Admau Bala (retd) yesterday urged the federal government to empower widows of ex-service men who do not have anyone to rely on. Speaking in Kaduna, the chairman said that out of the 5,000 widows of ex-service men in the state, the legion was only able to empower 69. He called on government at all levels to continue to cater for the welfare of ex-service men. Widows demand payment of life insurance in Niger In Niger State, widows of officers and men of the Nigeria Army have demanded payment of the fallen heroes’ life insurance to enable them take care of their children. The widows, who stormed the venue of the celebration in Minna, Niger State in their numbers, with some of them backing babies, told Daily Trust on Sunday that they had been neglected long after their husbands were killed in the line of duty. One of the widows, Rahmatu Abdul Abugi, who said her husband, Captain A. A. Abugi was killed in Maiduguri in the line of duty on August 5, 2014, said her effort to get the life insurance paid eight years after the incident had not been successful. Nabila Abdullahi Usman, the secretary of the Widows of Fallen Heroes Association, Niger State chapter, said her husband, Mohammed Goje, who served at the 31 Artillery Brigade, Minna, was also killed in Damaturu, Yobe State five years ago. Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello commended the armed forces and other security agencies for the sacrifice they made in securing the state from insurgency and banditry. Masari lauds armed forces’ commitment against terrorists in Katsina The governor of Katsina State, Aminu Bello Masari, has lauded the unwavering commitment exhibited by armed forces in the fight against terrorism in the state over the years. Masari gave the commendation yesterday, saying they were winning the war against banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling in the state. Ortom, Tor Tiv lay wreaths Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State laid wreaths alongside the paramount ruler of the Tiv nation, Tor Tiv, Prof James Ayatse, as part of activities to mark the end of this year’s Armed Forces Remembrance Day. The governor, monarch and other dignitaries performed the ceremony at the Remembrance Arcade situated in the IBB Square, Makurdi. Ortom had earlier, during an interdenominational service to mark the event, conveyed the Benue State Government’s decision to support each family of security personnel who died in the course of defending Benue from 2017 till date with N500,000 each, an amount totaling over N60million, for 120 fallen personnel. The governor, however, joined other dignitaries and top military officers to pray for Nigeria and her fallen heroes. Wike urges FG to stop killings by Boko Haram Also, Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari  to redouble efforts in fulfilling his cardinal electoral promise of securing the country. Speaking in Port Harcourt, Wike said Nigeria was at the crossroads and everyone was wary of the prolonged Boko Haram insurgency in parts of the country. Ebonyi: Employ us, our children, widows cry out Widows of fallen heroes in Ebonyi State yesterday begged the federal government to employ them or  their children. The chairperson, Nigeria Military Widows Association, Ebonyi State Council, Mrs Margret Ugoagha, who spoke on behalf of her members, noted that it would help them in addressing the suffering they are presently undergoing after the demise of their husbands. Kwara governor seeks more prayers, support for security agencies Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara State has called for more support for members of the armed forces and sister security agencies for their efforts in keeping the country and its people united and safe. Speaking to reporters shortly after inspecting the Guard of Honour and laying the wreath in honour of fallen soldiers, the governor urged the public to support their families. He said their sacrifices to keep the country safe and united could not be overemphasised. In Enugu State, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi was at the Michael Okpara Square to pray and honour the fallen heroes. He later identified with wives of the fallen heroes present at the event and announced a donation of items to them.  Muideen Olaniyi (Abuja), Zahraddeen Yakubu Shuaibu (Kano), Peter Moses (Abeokuta), Maryam Ahmadu-Suka (Kaduna), Abubakar Akote (Minna), Tijjani Ibrahim (Katsina), Victor Edozie (Port Harcourt), Nabob Ogbonna (Abakiliki), Hope Abah Emmanuel (Makurdi), Mumini AbdulKareem (Ilorin), Christiana T. Alabi (Lagos) & Tony Adibe (Enugu), with agency report