INTERSOS, a Humanitarian Organisation in Borno, has expressed sadness over the reported involvement of its official in rape. Daily Trust had reported how Aisha Umar,  a female Internally Displaced Person (IDP) in Borno State, took her life after allegedly being raped by  Huzaif Adam, 35, an official of INTERSOS. The deceased, who was into menial jobs for survival, was reportedly lured to the apartment of the suspect at 303 Housing Estate, near Dalori IDP camp, Maiduguri, under the guise of cleaning the place. Adam  was said to have forcefully had sex with her when she came into his apartment. A source said the victim, who was traumatised rushed to Adam’s kitchen where she picked up a knife that she used to stab herself. She died moments later at the hospital. In a statement on Wednesday night, INTERSOS apologised to the family of the victim, promising to keep a tab on the situation. “We are saddened to inform you that one of our Nigerian staff members is currently held in police custody in Maiduguri. He is accused of having committed rape and other violence connected with the death of a woman, as well as having caused a traffic accident leading to the injury of another person.” “The incident happened in Maiduguri town. Upon learning about this terrible incident, we have immediately suspended the staff, who was off duty and on vacation when the incident happened. As the investigation is ongoing, we will closely monitor the development and take appropriate actions accordingly. “We express our deep sorrow to the families of the victims. At this moment we are focusing on gathering additional information, and providing the necessary assistance to the authorities. “INTERSOS has a zero-tolerance policy against any form of Sexual and Gender Based Violence (SGBV). Our recruitment process follows strict and detailed guidelines in compliance with the organizations “Prevention of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse policy”, and its implementation is constantly followed up by a dedicated unit. We are also part of the Inter-Agency Scheme for the Disclosure of Safeguarding-related Misconduct in the Recruitment Process within the Humanitarian and Development Sector. “As we go through this difficult time, we kindly ask you to share any information you may receive regarding the case with me at nigeria@intersos.org, while we stay at your disposal for any further questions. “We appreciate your discretion in sharing and circulating only officially confirmed and reliable information, and not to circulate this message further.”