A Chieftain of the People Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State, Segun Showunmi, on Friday tackled former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and Sokoto state governor, Aminu Tambuwal, over the party’s presidential ticket, saying the duo lack “composite experience” to rule a complex country like Nigeria. Showunmi, who is the former spokesman to the People Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate in 2019 election, Atiku Abubakar, said both Tambuwal and Saraki cannot match the pedigree of Atiku as the presidential candidate of the PDP. He insisted that Atiku remains the most experienced candidate who can give the PDP the desired victory in the forthcoming 2023 polls. Showunmi stated this in a statement he made available to journalists in Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital, in response to a report credited to the spokesman of PDP Action 2023 group, Dr. Rufus Omeire, claiming that “Atiku does not have the requisite public sector experience to rule Nigeria.” Omeire had referred to Atiku as a second fiddle to his former boss, President Olusegun Obasanjo “who never held any executive position both in public and private positions, compared to Saraki and Tambuwal who served either as governor, presiding officer of the National Assembly, or chief executive of quoted companies.” But, Showunmi in Atiku’s defense, said “none of them (Saraki and Tambuwal) can come to the table with anything that resemble an idea of the type of work and composite experience, nor boldness of thoughts that the post Buhari Nigerian President will need.” Showunmi said, “The part that interests me is the so-called bulk never-ending on Atiku Abubakar’s table. Like seriously, please ask them if any of those mentioned have ever gone through the process of civil service examinations or paramilitary requirements of a promotion? “It is funny for their lackey to suddenly imagine that a failed banking career, or some neither here nor there back office law career is anything close to the experience of the rigour, training, and mentorship of a career the likes of Atiku got from working in the Nigerian customs service and rising to the rank of deputy. “Or is it the nothing to show for it governorship of some of their states that has left Ilorin so backwards compared to states that where created at the same time or even much younger states? “Or is it the joke of Sokoto that this fellows and their paymasters want to compare to the experience of a Vice President of the likes of Atiku Abubakar forgetting that if at all the party they claim they want the platform will showcase any respectable scorecard in government, it is the years of Obasanjo/Atiku presidency. “That the suggestion that a Vice President is not experienced when it comes to the roles and responsibilities of what is expected of a President, then clearly their principals are kindergartens. “I make very bold to say that none of them can come to the table with anything that resemble an idea of the type of work and composite experience, nor boldness of thoughts that the post Buhari Nigerian President will need. “In this regards truly they are kindergartners simple looking for the pecks and privilege of office without the ability to do the job. And again I say Nigeria cannot afford a jump from the frying pan to the fire.”