The saga between Nollywood actress, Olayode Juliana, and her spiritual father and mentor, Pastor Timilehin Adigun has taken a new twist as the pastor claims to know secrets about the actress but he will not reveal them. The former Jenifa’s Diary star took to her Instagram page on Tuesday to call out Pastor Timi for having access to her social media pages. Again Abuja primary schools shut over teachers strike Police to investigate Downing Street lockdown parties Captioning the video, she wrote, “I know some people are going to call me and say all sort but I AM TIRED!!! To some people, this might be a wrong move, and some might prefer I stay quiet but I am honestly TIRED!!!! And I am not going to shut up. “I DON’T KNOW WHAT Timilehin Adigun wants from me, I really don’t know. There is so much I want to say but I don’t even have the words to express it. “I also know that people are going to have a different opinion about it. Right now, I don’t want anybody calling me or texting me to tell me how to go about my life, what to say or what not to say, what to do or what not to do, nobody should tell me what the spirit is saying to them or tell me to think about the church and the body of Christ. I don’t want to hear any of it. “I don’t understand why I am having to pay or stress to get my stuff from a guy who is sitting in his mother’s school doing nothing. I just want my passwords for goodness sake and I want Timilehin Adigun to leave me alone.” Speaking further about the incident, she tearfully said, “God knows that I was off social media and Instagram for about a month. Like I mentioned briefly in the video I posted on my channel where I said that I had issues and that my page was hacked and stuff. I couldn’t refresh my Instagram and I didn’t know what was going on “I tried to restart my phone and I didn’t know what was going on. My Facebook account, I don’t know what happened to it, my Facebook page disappeared. Thanks to mama J, I got someone who helped me get my Instagram back. When he got my Instagram back, I was trying to get my Facebook back because it was affecting my Instagram and I don’t have the passwords to my Facebook account page because Timilehin Adigun has the password. “He still has some of my passwords until now. On Saturday, I woke up to a message and a missed call and this guy asked me on WhatsApp who Adigun Timilehin is? And I called him and asked what happened, why are you asking me about him and he said Timilehin unpublished my Facebook page and I was furious, like why would he unpublish my Facebook page?” Responding to the allegations, Timilehin revealed that he didn’t have her passwords and that he knew many secrets about her. He said, “I managed you like a dad will do his daughter… I do not have your passwords… I changed it one day in anger to your boyfriend’s name which you are aware of… when you walked out on me and the church and mama in 2020, I expected you to come back but you didn’t… you walked away from us in July 2020 from me and mama who loved and raised you, due to some mistakes I made with you which you forgave me for, which your mama also forgave me for. “You are my daughter, I know secrets about you that the world doesn’t know but I won’t do that, telling the world about your flaws….you blocked me everywhere so I unpublished your Facebook page for you to calm down and get over your issues with me… but I did not delete it, why will I destroy something I built.”