The convener of the Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Prof. Ango Abdullahi, has met former President Olusegun Obasanjo in Abeokuta, Ogun State over the 2023 general elections. Accompanied by the Chairman, Board of Trustees (BOT), Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG), Nastura Ashir Shariff and the Director, Action and Mobilization CNG, Aminu Adam, Abdullahi met Obasanjo at his penthouse at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, Oke Mosan, Abeokuta. A statement made available by Obasanjo’s media aide on Wednesday said the meeting lasted for about two hours. Speaking after the meeting, Abdullahi noted that Nigerian leaders needed to strategise ahead of the 2023 elections in the country. He explained that he met Obasanjo to express his feelings about the challenges facing the nation. Abdullahi said he and the former president were on the same page on the issues discussed. He stressed that despite their ages, they could still contribute to the society and the country, hence, “my coming to see him. I don’t want to stay away from him for so many months; or years without seeing him, especially at this period. “So, I’m visiting him to say hello and get a briefing from him. We briefed him on how we feel about the nation. We compared some notes and we agreed on some grounds.” Asked specifically if they were on the same page with the host on the issues raised, the erudite scholar, said, “Yes. We are on same page and Insha Allah it shall be well. “We have been having challenges and we have been talking on them. You are in the media and you know what we have been saying about the situation in the country. “Things are not good enough and as we head for 2023, we hope to be strategizing for the good of the nation.” Meanwhile, a former National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Bareje, has emphasised the need for the next president of the country to prioritize the nation’s unity. Baraje spoke in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, on Wednesday during a parley with newsmen as part of the activities toward his turbaning as the Tafida of Ilorin by the Emir, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, scheduled for Friday at the palace. The former PDP national chairman said that became imperative because the country has never been this divided. He said the ongoing regional agitations for president from various political groups and individuals must not be allowed to divide the country. From Peter Moses (Abeokuta) & Mumini AbdulKareem (Ilorin)