Members of the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Associations Alliance (REEEA-A) are seeking concerted actions towards ensuring that renewable energy contributes 30 per cent to the national grid in the next eight years. At briefing on Wednesday, the Chairman, Steering Committee of REEEA-A, Dr Imamudeen Talba, said the private sector organsiations’ alliance was established in 2020 to promote the growth of renewable energy in Nigeria. He said, “REEEA-A promotes research, policy development and analysis, capacity building and interest representation both within and out Nigeria. The alliance strives to contribute towards the growth of the Renewable Energy and Sustainable Energy Efficiency (RE&SEE) sector in line with the national policy of 30 per cent by 2030.” Talba also announced that the alliance would hold a national conference in March, with prominent policymakers in attendance, and that the conference will feature plenary sessions, breakouts, exhibitions, keynote speeches, paper presentations and networking opportunities. The Minister of Power, Engr Abubakar Aliyu, will open the conference and deliver the keynote speech. Other partic-pants will include Sharon Ikeazor, the Minister of State for Environment; Senator Gabriel Suswam, Chairman, Senate Committee on Power; Mr Martin Hulk, Deputy Ambassador of Germany; and Mr Benjamin Duke, Head of Programme, GIZ Nigerian Energy Support Programme (NESP). The alliance said it was made up of seven renewable energy associations working to push up renewable energy a-cess in Nigeria. Justifying the conference with the theme: “Optimising Opportunities in the Energy Transition Value Chain”, it said the physical and virtual event was a platform for private investors and policymakers to join forces on renewable energy. Talba further said, “The conference will be Nigeria’s largest gathering of renewable energy and energy efficiency practitioners, policymakers, researchers, manufacturers, investors, stakeholders and consumers. Over 1,000 participants are expected to attend through physical or virtual participation, and exhibitors will get the opportunity to explore link-ages and collaboration with the Nigerian government and its relevant agencies towards promoting clean and affordable energy to end energy poverty in the country.”