The tension that trailed the just-concluded governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is gradually easing as seven of the aspirants under the G-7 that threatened to sue the party have backed down. The seven aggrieved aspirants are Sen. Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, Sen. Dayo Adeyeye, Hon. Femi Bamisile, Hon. Bamidele Faparusi, Engr. Kayode Ojo, Hon. Demola Popoola and Hon. Olusola Afolabi who rejected the January 27 primaries of the party ahead of the June governorship poll in Ekiti State. Their grievances include the composition of the local government officers and returning officers selected for the conduct of the election. However, all the aggrieved aspirants separately decided to challenge the exercise, describing the primaries as staged-managed and a fraud that will not stand the test of time. A few days ago, some of the aggrieved aspirants, including Senator Opeyemi Bamidele and Hon. Femi Bamisile, decided to back down on their threats to go to court in the interest of the party, having listened to some stakeholders who intervened in the crisis to allow fresh air to prevail. After reflecting on the situation, Sen Bamidele insisted that the primary was a mockery of democracy that should be condemned by all means. Bamidele, was of the view that the leadership of the APC should specifically and decisively address the current and previous crises in the party in the state and not play the ostrich by waiting for doom’s day. He pointed out that he was not giving up on the struggle for justice and internal democracy in the party. Justice, he noted, must be done for all – to him and his loyal supporters who have been side lined in the schemed of things in the party. As a loyal party man, Opeyemi Bamidele, said though, his hope was betrayed in the primary of the party, he had made it clear to everyone that both he and his supporters would not defect from the APC. “I have chosen to drop the option of going to court to sue the party. The other is to make it crystal clear to everyone that both my supporters and I will not defect from APC. “Details of the reasons which informed these choices will be communicated at a later date when my supporters and I address Ekiti people and Nigerians at large. “It is not just about me. It is about the unity and progress of Ekiti State and her politically undermined and economically afflicted people. “We have all contributed so much to building this party in Ekiti State and the management, as well as its decision-making processes, cannot be an exclusive preserve of a few,” he said in a statement. Similarly, Bamisile, while addressing his supporters said: “What I have just said today is that I am standing with the party. Whatever the party wants us to do, we would do. I can’t destroy the party I joined others to build and I have a penchant for building political parties.” Biodun Oyebanji, the APC governorship candidate while reacting to the decision of the lawmakers, commended them for opting out of the lawsuit over the January 27 governorship primary of the APC. The Publicity Secretary of APC in Ekiti State, Mr. Segun Dipe, noted that the decision of Senator Bamidele, to drop his decision to go to court is a welcome development. “ It shows that he is a true progressive who will not allow the house to collapse,” he said.