The Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), in collaboration with B2YB, an advisory and consultancy firm, has officially launched its advertising platform to promote visibility for brands within and around train stations. The parties are banking on the expected increase in train movements across the country as NRC, which currently conveys 15,000 to 20,000 passengers daily, is aiming at 100,000 passengers daily. The NRC had appointed B2YB to manage the commercial utilisation of its assets within and around railway terminals, on coaches and on the right of way. B2YB’s mandate includes the design, fabrication, installation, marketing and management of advertising spaces/opportunities in/on all NRC property across Nigeria. Speaking at the official launch, NRC Director of Operations, Mr Niyi Alli, said, “NRC is aimed at reducing traffic on the road because the passenger rate is growing. So this is an avenue to reduce passengers’ stress.” He said, “Currently, NRC conveys 15,000 to 20,000 daily, but we are aiming 100,000 daily. “We are aiming towards having four stations en-route Lagos to Ibadan having four return trips, which would make it eight times daily.” NRC and B2YB described the advertising platform as the easiest, fastest and most effective way brands would reach out to their target audience. The Managing Director (MD) of B2YB, Mr Temitope Ayanbade, said, “B2YB is a young brand helping brands to connect with their consumers. The excitement is that it can never be overemphasized that presently Nigeria railway can be liken to what we have in the advanced Western world like the US, UK and Dubai, and we are very excited about what is happening now.” He further said the opportunities were so enormous for brands which took advantage of the platform, noting that safety was the major concern of Nigerians. Buttressing on the opportunities for brands to connect and engage their consumers through the platform, he explained that, “Advertising is a game of numbers; we want to tap in to where the eyeballs are. There are immerse opportunities for brands to come and leverage numbers that we have here. “There is opportunity for in-coach and out-coach branding, there are opportunities around the terminals where you can have Point of Sale (POS), opportunity to try brand engagement and visibility for your brand as well.”