The National Reconciliation Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) led by a former governor of Nasarawa State, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, has failed to submit the final report of its findings 14 days to the much-touted national convention of the party. Sources within the party told Daily Trust reports that the committee has failed to submit the final report of its findings due to intense crisis rocking some state chapters of the party and the many petitions before it. The committee was constituted in September 2021 and mandated to resolve the contentious issues and unite members before the convention. The reconciliation committee, which consists of former governors, deputy governors and other prominent personalities, submitted its interim report on January 31, 2022, and sought for one week to enable it submit the final report. Presenting the report to the national leadership of the party in Abuja, Adamu said the committee received 47 petitions from aggrieved members and still counting hence the need for the extension of time. But checks by our correspondent last night revealed that the committee was yet to submit its report even as the seven days allotted to it has elapsed, following persistent crises in the party. Crises are still raging in Kano, Kwara and others. Kano The Senator Ibrahim Shekarau-led G-7 of the APC in Kano State has declared that the peace talk is over following the breakdown of dialogue over the crisis rocking the party in the state. The G-7 is at loggerheads with Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s leadership of the party leading to two parallel executives in the state and a couple of ongoing court cases. The party’s national leadership had tried to proffer a political solution to the raging issues in the state by issuing a template for the harmonisation of party structures but it didn’t yield fruitful results. The G-7 rejected the proposal, which made Ganduje the chairman of a National/State Joint Supervisory Committee set up to implement the template to be assisted by Senator Shekarau. In an interview with Daily Trust Thursday, a member of the G-7, Alhaji Shehu Dalhatu, revealed that the national secretariat wrote another letter to the G-7 on Wednesday urging them to “meet up with Ganduje and have faith in him, that we should have faith in what they proposed and give it a chance.” “But we decided that we are not going to go and meet up. We will reply to the letter and the reply is we stand by our earlier proposal,” he said. He added that since the court cases are still on, they have also decided to rely on whatever comes out of the court. But reacting, Honourable Zakari Sarina, Secretary of the Governor Ganduje-backed executive in the state, said while the court case is still pending, it was best for all parties to allow peace to reign and give in to dialogue to resolve their differences. He said the matter is now between the national secretariat and the aggrieved individuals, adding that “ours is to solicit again that they should have faith in our governor because what they are saying is an insult to His Excellency: that they cannot trust him to sit down with him. “If they cannot agree, then the court will decide,” he said, adding that it is healthier for all parties to resolve the differences through dialogue. Kwara The spokesman of the Lai Muhammed faction in Kwara State, Ibrahim Sharafadeen, said the committee has refused to withdraw the suit challenging Buni’s leadership because there was no agreement to such directive. “Withdrawal of the suit should not be the first thing. What did we discuss to that level? They can’t just impose such a decision on us. We have to agree if they are desirous of resolving the political camps in Kwara. “We can’t withdraw it because we have not secured commitment up to that level. The committee has not achieved anything in Kwara and its like they are no longer interested in keeping us in the party,” Sharafadeen added. On his part, the newly inaugurated chairman of the APC loyal to the governor, Prince Sunday Fagbemi, told Daily Trust that “On our part, we are ready and appealing to all of us to work together. We expect they will have a change of heart. “The committee talked to us to allow peace to reign and I believe that is the same thing that they said to the other people.” By Saawua Terzungwe (Abuja) Clement A. Oloyede (Kano) & Mumini AbdulKareem (Ilorin)