Top contenders for the All Progressives Congress (APC) national chairmanship and other party stalwarts are groaning over the uncertainties bedevilling the February 26, 2022 national convention of the party. This is sequel to the failure of the Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee led by Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni to, alongside other critical stakeholders, decide on the zoning of various National Working Committee (NWC) offices. The party’s top echelon had met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, where it was agreed that the convention should be held on February 26, 2022, to among other things elect a new crop of NWC members. But while the party has released its schedule of activities for the convention, it has failed to strictly adhere to it as the issues of zoning and consensus are still raging among critical stakeholders. Sources at the APC national secretariat confided in our correspondent yesterday that the party was yet to print expression of interest and nomination forms for aspirants seeking various offices. It was learnt that following the unresolved issue of zoning, the party was yet to constitute and publish the names of various sub-committees 10 days before the convention. APC, expected to have commenced the sale of forms to all categories of aspirants at its national secretariat on Monday in Abuja, in line with its earlier released schedule of activities, however, failed for sundry reasons. Recall that crisis is still raging in some state chapters of the party, including Kano, Kwara, Sokoto. We’re asked to wait till after zoning – Sheriff’s spokesman The spokesman for the campaign council of a former governor of Borno State, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, Senator Victor Lar, has told Daily Trust that he was at the party’s national secretariat to obtain forms for the former governor but was asked to wait till the issue of zoning was resolved. Asked if the development will not affect the convention date, Senator Lar said, “I believe it will not affect the date of the convention.” Another top contender to the party’s chairmanship, Sunny Sylvester Moniedafe, the Jagaban Jimeta, told Daily Trust in a telephone interview yesterday that it was unfair for the party to keep aspirants and other members in suspense. Meanwhile, a former Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) and chieftain of the APC, Salihu Mohammed Lukman, has written an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari asking him to wade into the issues surrounding the national convention. In the letter titled, “APC convention: Caretaker or undertaker” addressed to the president in Abuja, Lukman appealed to Buhari to call a meeting of critical stakeholders to decide on the zoning formula and other issues related to the convention. Convention can be postponed – Imo gov Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has said the February 26 date for the national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) can be changed if necessary. The governor said this on Tuesday while fielding questions from State House reporters after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He, however, said there was no information that currently suggests that the proposed date would be changed or had been changed. Uzodinma, who said he was at the Villa to consult with President Buhari over some issues affecting his state, including security and governance, said the ruling party was not under any pressure because of what other parties might have done in preparation for the upcoming general elections. The governor, while reacting to questions on the apprehension over the preparation for the coming convention, said “of course, that is the decision of the party and there is nothing wrong even if it doesn’t hold, what is important is that we must have our convention. “We have said it’s on the 26th, if for anything or any reason tomorrow, it’s not doable in the opinion of the party, we will move it. But that does not mean that there is any intention to move it,” he said. Meanwhile, a group of youths and other stakeholders of the APC has called for the immediate resignation of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, over his alleged schemes to impose candidates on the party. The group, under the aegis of Concerned APC Youth Forum, said the AGF had perfected plans to put up a list from the backdoor during the party’s national convention slated for February 26. The group’s convener/president, Comrade Owolabi Abdullahi, said on Tuesday in Abuja, that the minister’s action would cause disaffection in the party through the imposition of candidates.