The federal government has boosted the quality of electricity supply to Nasarawa State and its environs with the newly commissioned 330,132,33 kilovolts (kV) Akurba power transmission substation in Lafia, the state capital. The minister of power, Engr Abubakar Aliyu, stated this in Lafia after President Muhammadu Buhari commissioned the facility on Thursday, saying the substation, built by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), would boost small businesses. Aliyu said, “It is a very good event, we welcomed the president and he was so happy to see that the substation is commissioned. This is a 330kV substation which the people of the state are already enjoying. It started since 2016, and thank God it is already completed now.” Speaking about the impact, the minister said, “What it means for the people here is that they have already started enjoying quality electricity. “Before now, they received their electricity from Jos; which wasn’t sufficient. With this substation, Nasarawa has become a centre point for electricity transmission around its environs.” The managing director of NDPHC, Mr Chiedu Ugbo, lauded the president for being on ground to commission the facility which has two units of 150MVA transformers and two units of 60MVA transformers. He said, “This project is one of the many electricity transmission projects built by our company. “However, this project is unique because it is a project started and fully completed under Your Excellency’s administration.” On the impact of the substation, he said, “NDPHC decided to build this Lafia substation essentially to step down electricity from the high voltage transmission line to a lower voltage level where the Distribution Company (Abuja DisCo) can now draw electricity and serve close to one million households and businesses in the state.” The deputy managing director of AY-AK Electric, Dr Mohammed Gummi, said the substation was one of the 46 facilities the company had built in Nigeria. He said, “Due to the protection mechanism that has been placed in this substation, it recently saved the national grid from collapse as it is built with a high level of precision and is fully automated. I can say it can stand the test of time.”