Mr Ihechukwu Dallas Chima, is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2023 election. In this interview, he speaks on zoning, his agenda for Nigeria and the party’s national convention. Excerpts:  Why do you want to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari? I am aware of the challenges of Nigerians and what they are yearning for. Some of the successive governments we had have not been able to put on their thinking caps to understand how to harness the opportunities in this country. So when I become president, we are going to make every state economically viable. The issue of governance is very important. Until Nigeria has committed to impactful governance, this country cannot move forward. We are going to restructure the way governance is structured in this country. We are going to merge 10 ministries into six. Six ministers should handle these ministries from their geo-political zones. What are your chances considering that some APC bigwigs are also in the race for the same ticket? These persons you just mentioned may be seen as political gladiators but Nigerians need a very impactful government. If you look at it, Nigerians are tired of the old hands; they are yearning for a fresh thinker; a leader that will bring fresh ideas that will move this country forward. We are going to introduce compact policing. Our borders are porous. We are going to create what we call border operation guards to man our porous borders. This will help tackle insecurity in the country. Once we get security right Nigeria will be great again. Which mode of primary will you advise the party to apply in the choice of its 2023 presidential candidate? As a presidential aspirant, any method the party applies to come out victorious, I will accept it. Whatever mode of primary the party brings on board, I will welcome it. I have my own structures in place across the country, IDC Support Group. These are grassroots structures and we are confident of winning. APC is going into an elective national convention with a divided house. What do you make of this? I’m very confident in the leadership of Governor Mai Mala Buni, and the Secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe. These are persons with integrity and are good administrators. We are doing what we call underground work because the enemies are there who want to sabotage the good efforts we are doing. PDP is there and ready to laugh at us. So I’m assuring you that the APC is going to become very strong after our convention on February 26, 2022. The convention is going to hold and we are going to come up with a national chairman who is going to lead us into the 2023 general elections. Family members have challenges and they come back to resolve those challenges. The APC will soon become strong. If you are to suggest to the party which zones should produce the national chairman and which to be allotted the presidential ticket, what would be your suggestion? I’m not an apostle of zoning, but I’m an apostle of equity in the sense that a part of this country was supported by another part to lead. The North should show equity by holding the South to say it is your time to lead. So I will not say this zone should produce the national chairman, rather, I will say let a man of capacity be made the national chairman of APC. For the presidential candidate, I will say the party should make me their presidential candidate because I’m a youth.