A former governor of Imo State, Senator Rochas Okorocha, has officially declared his intention to run for the presidency on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) come 2023. Okorocha, who made his declaration on Monday in Abuja, challenged other presidential aspirants for the 2023 general polls to show Nigerians what they have done in uniting the nation. A former governor of Lagos State and National Leader of the APC, Bola Ahmed Tinubu; former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President, Bukola Saraki; Ebonyi State governor, David Umahi and many others are jostling to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari at the expiration of his tenure in 2023. Okorocha, who demanded the top echelon of the APC to provide a level playing field for all the aspirants said he was in the race to win the APC ticket and the presidential election in order to make life better for Nigerians. “I appeal to my party, the APC to allow a level playing ground and Ibos must understand that power is not given, it is taken. I challenge all those who want to become president to show what they have done in uniting this country. “Nigeria needs a leader that can unite this country and give everyone a sense of belonging. If I say I will unite this country, believe me, I will do so. There is no part of this country that you go that you will not see my signature. “I am not from Sokoto state but my signature is in Sokoto State, I am not from Zaria, my signature is in Zaria. I am not from Kano, my signature is in Kano. I am not from North Central, my signature is in Jos. I am not from North-East, my signature is in Adamawa and Bauchi. “I’m not from South-West, my signature is in Ibadan, Oyo State. I am not from South-South, my signature is in Cross River State. If I tell Nigerians I will unite this country believe me, I can do that,” he said. Speaking on the agitations for rotational Presidency, Senator Okorocha said, “I am not a candidate of rotation, neither am I a candidate of zoning. I am a candidate of justice.”