 By Ismail Mudashir, Saawua Terzungwe (Abuja) & Clement A. Oloyede (Kano)  The national caretaker committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has set up a five-man “National/State Joint Supervisory Committee” for the party in Kano State to be headed by the state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and assisted by Senator Ibrahim Shekarau. Other members of the committee are Governor Bello Muhammad Matawalle of Zamfara State, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and Senator Abba Ali, with the national secretariat expected to also be represented. The committee is expected to sit in Kano and within seven days complete and submit its report. This was contained in a letter communicating the template for the harmonization of the party structure in the state addressed last night to Governor Ganduje and signed by Abdullahi Gashua, the Chief of Staff to the national chairman of the party. It was stated in the template that all stakeholders at the reconciliation meetings came to a consensus among others that Ganduje “is the undisputed APC leader in Kano State and as the leader, he is encouraged to demonstrate leadership to accommodating key stakeholders.” The template also stated that a “bottom-top caucus shall be constituted at each local government area.” The national caretaker committee of the party under the leadership of Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni, had after a meeting with the warring camps on Saturday, resolved to share party positions for the groups. The battle for the APC structure in Kano State involves the state governor’s camp and the members of the G-7, comprising Senator  Shekarau, Senator Jibrin Barau and five others. The party had on Sunday said the sharing formula would be released yesterday. But the G-7  has demanded 55 per cent of the party positions including the chairmanship. One of the leaders of the G-7 told Daily Trust that they have presented their demands to the national caretaker committee of the party. “We requested that the party positions be shared 55 – 45 positions in favour of our camp, the G-7. We are to produce the chairman. Based on the ongoing litigation. The party leadership is with us,” he told one of our correspondents last night. He also said they are mulling the rejection of the template released by the national caretaker committee. He said a statement would be released last night to announce the rejection. Challenges surmountable – Buni Yobe State Governor and Chairman of the APC committee, Mai Mala Buni, has said the challenges faced by the party are surmountable. He stated this on Monday when he received members of the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) who paid him a courtesy visit, according to a statement signed by his Director-General Media and Press Affairs, Mamman Mohammed. The governor, who said the challenges do not constitute any threat to the party, added that the ruling party was waxing stronger. Earlier, the grand patron of the organisation, Sen. Abba Aji Katsina, said the organisation was making contributions to promote unity in the party.