Sufyan Sahabi, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Youth Leader aspirant, has urged the party leadership to make competence a standard for recruiting leaders of the party. Sufyan Sahabi, who spoke to journalists recently, said only competence, justice and fairness will bring the change agenda the political party desires. The youth said with fairness and justice agitation for power rotation/zoning between the North and South will be solved. Sahabi said: “I am a firm believer in equity and fairness. Even though I know rotational power arrangement is not written in the constitution, I believe if the majority agree that it should be followed, it is only fair that it is followed. “Ideally, as a people in a country, competence should have been our focus but if there exists any feeling of marginalization which surely does exist, then let’s respect the feeling of our fellow countrymen.” The National Youth Leader aspirant charged youth to contest for various positions in the 2023 elections, saying the party leadership should give youth chance to try their luck for a better Nigeria. He added: “I think the underrepresentation of youth is gross. “Nigerian youths have shown that they have the capacity to hold their own at any level in the world, hence it is necessary they are given a more prominent opportunity to contribute to policymaking, project delivery and the all-around growth of the nation. “When we come together and accept that we are all on constituency understanding that we are all in the same boat and we have to sink or swim together, we would get the impetus to band together and pull together in a unified voice ready to participate wholly in our developmental journey,” he said. Sahabi added that financing is the major factor militating against youth seeking an elective position, urging youth not to give up. He stated: “The nature of our politicking doesn’t in any stretch favour young people. “The finance required to purchase nomination forms, conduct campaigns are not easy to come by. Also, self-doubt is rife and a strong limitation for ambitions.”