Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has said that he possesses the necessary qualities to take over from President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. The governor said this while fielding questions from State House reporters after a meeting with the President at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. He also defended the necessity of his candidacy despite the current argument over the zoning of the Presidency. Bello said from 1999 till date, the North had not spent up to the number of years utilized by the past occupants of the seat from the South. Asked whether he had informed the President about 2023 presidential race, the personality he thought should take over from Buhari and the motive behind his ambition, he said: “Mr President would want a vibrant, experienced, energetic, patriotic Nigerian to take over from him and in all of the qualities that Nigerians are yearning, or looking for today, I possess all of these qualities by the special grace of God. “Nigerians are yearning and asking myself to run for the President come 2023 and by the special grace of God, I will not turn down that offer. “Also, Mr President is one of the Nigerians like I said who would want a qualified person to take over from him. “Informing him is between myself and him, it is not what I should come to the public to tell the world that I have informed Mr President that I want to run. “But surely short days, and possibly weeks ahead we are going to come to the public to declare our intention by the special grace of God.” On his reaction to the questions on whether his records were enough to present him as a qualified candidate and the view that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) might zone the 2023 presidential ticket to the South in the spirit of federal character since power would have stayed eight years in the North by 2023, Governor Bello replied: “First, what have I done to merit the presidency of this country? “You simply refer to 2016 when I assumed office, compared it to this moment security-wise, in terms of unity, in terms of infrastructural development. “I think we should not be laid back to the extent that we don’t read and research. I don’t have to come to the television to be blowing my trumpet. You come to Kogi State, you’ll see exactly what we have done. “Simply, you can visit our website and then you’re going to see what we’ve done. Visit kogipedia.net you’re going to see the much we have done. “We have surpassed more than any other person can ever imagine. That in terms of unity, Kogi State today is more united than ever before. “Today, nobody cares where you come from or the religion you practice, Nigerians are yearning for this. “In terms of security before you travel through Kogi State, you hold your breath, today you can travel day and night. Pockets of issue sometimes, but it can never be the situation it was in 2016.” Call for Zoning On zoning question, he said: “Then concerning whether North and South, first, I’m an advocate of capacity and ability to serve. “In Nigeria today, we need somebody who has the capacity to serve the country. Today, if you’re flying from one place to another, you don’t care who the pilot is, but who is that person who is experienced to fly from one point to another. “Also coming from the angle of North and South divide, then let us be very fair and equitable. Then, you look into the number of years North have held this position and the number of years South has held this position. “If you add eight years to what South has had and then looking at the North, then you know that there’s injustice as far as that is concerned. “So, if we’re talking about justice, fairness and equity, we’re not just looking at the eight years by the grace of God of that of President Muhammadu Buhari, we should add them together to the number of years the North has had it since 1999 till date, and the number of years South have had it since 1999 till date. Whichever divide whichever argument that comes up I perfectly fit into the arguments.” When asked about the time he would make a formal declaration about his ambition after the convention, he said: “I shall declare after February by the grace of God”.