The practice of a sitting governor choosing a successor in Akwa Ibom State started in 2007 when Obong Victor Attah, the then governor, picked his son-in-law, Udoma Bob Ekarika to succeed him at the twilight of his administration. His decision gave rise to political wrangling and dissatisfaction within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, which forced the party at the national level to intervene. The intervention resulted in the emergence of the most favoured candidate then, Godswill Akpabio, who was later elected as the governor of the state. Like Attah, Akpabio, on the expiration of his second term, deployed all known political tactics possible to pick and install his chosen candidate, Mr Udom Emmanuel as governor, then a political neophyte. Unlike Attah, Akpabio succeeded in installing his anointed candidate. Taking a cue from his predecessor and estranged godfather, Governor Emmanuel announced his Commissioner for Lands and Water Resources, Pastor Umo Eno as his successor, after months of dillydallying and pressure from PDP stakeholders and party faithful to name a successor, which he stoutly refused on the premise that it was a distraction to his completion agenda, and the claim of waiting to hear from God for a ‘divinely anointed’ successor. Before the choice of Eno, a former vice-chairman of ExxonMobil, Udom Inoyo, a lawyer, who was touted as the preferred successor, started wider-angle consultations across the state, but his ambition slowly died when many kicked against a political ‘neophyte’ being handed the mantle of leadership in the state. But the announcement of ‘divinely anointed’ Eno, though not surprising because his name suddenly reverberated across the state through different subtle and calculated occurrences, took many people unawares and heralded dissension which threatens the fabrics of the PDP. Immediately after the announcement of Eno as the incumbent’s choice on Sunday, the chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary, Mr Onofiok Luke, who had stormed out of the meeting where the chosen candidate was announced, took to his Facebook page to announce the continuation of his aspiration to become governor in 2023. Luke urged Akwa Ibom people not to be deterred by the fact that the governor’s choice was from his local government area, saying, “As a fellow aspirant from the same local government at the same advantage when successful, my aspiration to serve the state in the capacity of the governor remains on course. “My supporters and those sympathetic to my cause should please note that we are as resolute as ever in our desire to give our people purposeful leadership in the office of the governor come 2023. “God’s amazing grace has always seen us through and will always see us through.” Following his stance, youths under the auspices of the Akwa Ibom Youth Mandate have rallied round Luke based on his antecedents in public service and governance, starting from his days as student union president in the University of Uyo; president, Nigerian Youth Parliament; Speaker, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, and currently, chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary. Mr Victor Thompson, Speaker of the South-South Youth Assembly said on behalf of the stakeholders, Akwa Ibom Youth Mandate, that as a youth within the 40-years age bracket, Luke would be sympathetic to their course, adding that 60 per cent of the population of Akwa Ibom State are youths, as such, they should be given a chance to pick a candidate. Apart from Luke, other aspirants who have refused to succumb to the choice of Gov Emmanuel and are continuing with their governorship consultations include Mike Enyong,  member representing Uyo Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives; Commissioner for Economic Development and Ibom Deep Seaport, Mr Akan Okon; Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Ini Emembong; former Commissioner for Environment, Dr Iniobong Essien, and former governorship aspirant, Mr James Iniama, all within the PDP and from the Akwa Ibom northeast senatorial district, which the governorship slot for the next eight years has been zoned, based on an unwritten zoning charter in the state. Of the lot, only former Senator Effiong Bob has sacrificed his gubernatorial aspiration to the dictates of Governor Emmanuel after he chose his successor. Though Senator Bassey Akpan, chairman, Senate Committee on Petroleum Resources (upstream), representing the Akwa Ibom northeast senatorial district has remained silent over Eno’s emergence as the incumbent’s choice, his campaign organisation, ‘Akwa UbokAbasi’ (The Mighty Hand of God), has appointed Dr Usoro Usoro as its spokesman. A source within the campaign team authoritatively informed Daily Trust Saturday that the campaign team would begin a state-wide consultation in the next two weeks, adding that Senator Akpan’s aspiration as one of the most prominent contenders for the office of governor in 2023 was still on course. It was gathered that many party stakeholders who are dissatisfied with the choice of Eno have started pitching their tents with Akpan and other aspirants of interest. Despite the seeming dissatisfaction with Gov Emmanuel’s choice, many PDP stakeholders have rallied around Eno. The immediate past national legal adviser of the PDP, Emmanuel Enoidem and the national chairman of the Maintain Peace Movement (MPM), a group created by the state government, said the choice of Eno was a dream come true for the organisation. Enoidem described Eno as the most qualified person for the position, adding that with his pedigree and antecedents as a renowned entrepreneur, he understands the plight of Akwa Ibom people. Defending his choice, Governor Emmanuel said he was convinced that Eno would continue with his developmental strides in the state, adding that as an entrepreneur, the commissioner would work with an economic blueprint that would guarantee employment, development and economic prosperity for the people. “I mean well for this state, that is why I waited for God to show me the man who would continue with the pace of developmental strides we have started in the last six plus years and then, move the needle even further. “Pastor Umo Eno is a highly respected person. He has enormous capacity. He is an epitome of humility and is blessed with a common touch, a compelling story; and he is God-fearing. He is a successful entrepreneur who has employed our people and lifted thousands from poverty to prosperity,” he said. However, political analysts have disagreed with the stance of the governor, saying that already, he has abandoned his ‘completion agenda’ for a ‘succession agenda’ as there are plans to mobilise all the commissioners in the state to begin a state-wide consultation for his successor, which will take them away from their duties for almost a month. They argued that he created division among his cabinet as those aspirants within his executive council would now be distracted from their duties and may resign to pursue their ambitions. They also lament that recently, Gov Emmanuel transformed his government to a business exclusive to only members of his clan, Awa in Onna Local Government Area, to his detriment, the party and the state. Some opine that bringing Obong Victor Attah, a respected elder statesman to herald his successor is no guarantee that his successor would emerge as the gubernatorial flag-bearer for the PDP following the antecedent that the choice of Attah’s son-in-law as his then successor was not successful. Speaking on the development, the state chairman of Civil Society Organisations (CSO), Mr Harry Udoh said the choice of Eno as the governor’s successor is subject to the people’s choice at the party primaries and gubernatorial elections, noting that the governor’s claim of waiting on God for a successor was a gimmick to make God a politician. “It is within the governor’s remit to support whoever he wants, but that’s not the choice of Akwa Ibom people. There’s still the primary election to be won, as well as the main election,” he said. “Anybody can choose anybody; it is left for the people to decide. I think that’s what democracy is all about. “The governor can go ahead and dream the dreams he wants and see visions he wants, but that is not the dream and vision of the people. The people have to decide at the end who should be governor. We can’t argue with the governor. “Things are changing, the society is evolving. The way we used to do elections in time past is no longer like that, elections are different today. People are more conscious; there is a heightened interest in what is happening in the polity. There used to be imposition, but now, I see a strong battle for that position. Even in the time past, there were upheavals. “The governor is not saying I chose this one based on his antecedents or what he can do, but based on what God told him; in this 21st century? That is the fallacy to ‘appeal to authority,’ that is just reducing God to a politician. I don’t have any problem with Umo Eno, but the governor’s posturing is unpalatable,” he said. Indeed, the announcement of Gov Emmanuel’s successor has unsettled the once calm, cordial and peaceful political atmosphere in the state, which is now both tense and exciting as political activities have begun in earnest. Many aspirations and consultations across different elective positions within the PDP are beginning to unfold and build up.