The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) said it is committed to full automation of the nation’s seaports as part of the new reforms of its current management. NPA’s Managing Director, Mohammed Bello Koko, in his acceptance address earlier this week, promised that his administration would rehabilitate all decaying ports infrastructure, improve marine services, cut down expenditures and improve revenue drive among others. He said: “I would want to thank Almighty Allah, then express my profound gratitude to His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari for this incredible opportunity to serve the nation as the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority. “A special appreciation to the Honorable Minister of Transportation, Rt. HR. Rotimi Ameachi, whose recommendation played a significant role in my confirmation. “With my experience as the Executive Director Finance and Account and later acting Managing Director, I will continue to work with all stakeholders to create an institution that is responsive to the expectations of the government, maritime industry, and the general public. “As we move to complete the Lekki deep seaport, we are open to investments to develop other strategic deep seaports in the country. “While also pursuing rehabilitation of decaying ports infrastructure, improving marine services, cutting down expenditures, improving revenue, and pursuing aggressively, recovery of debts, we will however not relent on our core mandate — trade facilitation; easing gridlock in the ports, and encouraging the full utilization of the Eastern Ports. “Our vision is to have a fully automated port system that will fit into global port standards. I am not unaware of the enormity of the task reposed on me. I will, therefore, carry it out with utmost diligence and put the national interest ahead and above anything else. ” I want to extend my profound gratitude to the Board, Management, and staff of the Authority for their support and professional relationship. “Special gratitude to my friends and family especially, for their understanding and perseverance, and the general public for their kind words and best wishes. I feel greatly honored and do not take your words for granted,” Koko said.