The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is set to postpone its much-touted elective national convention slated for February 26, 2022. Multiple sources hinted our correspondents last night that the convention would be postponed over some unresolved issues in the party. Daily Trust reports that while the convention was slated for this Saturday and a letter already transmitted to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the matter, the party was yet to constitute and publish names of the convention sub-committees. Similarly, Daily Trust reports that the party is yet to zone the National Working Committee (NWC) offices. Investigation revealed that the ruling party has not yet printed expression of interest and nomination forms for various categories of aspirants and could not commence the sale of forms last Monday, in line with its earlier released schedule of activities for the convention. Sources at the APC national secretariat confided in our correspondent last night that there was an agenda to shift the convention to March in order to resolve many issues including that of zoning and skirmishes in some state chapters. It was hinted that the party would constitute and inaugurate convention sub-committees this week and a new date would be announced for the convention. A credible source who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity said, “It is possible because last Saturday we had by-elections and those who emerged are also statutory delegates, so extension is possible. “Now they are trying to constitute the convention sub-committees. They will put the committees in place this week. They have started working on that and by the end of this week they are likely to announce the sub-committees and people that will head the committees.” The convention is expected to elect a new crop of NWC members that would replace the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee which was inaugurated on June 25, 2020 following the dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC. Buhari meets govs Tuesday Barring any last-minute changes, President Muhammadu Buhari will hold a meeting with APC governors tomorrow. The meeting, hitherto scheduled for last week Tuesday, was called off because of Buhari’s trip to Brussels, Belgium, for the three-day 6th EU-Africa Summit. Daily Trust learnt that the focus of the meeting would be the forthcoming convention of the ruling party, especially issues on the modalities and the setting up of sub-committees to ensure the success of the exercise. Six days ago, Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State had said the February 26 date for the convention could be changed if necessary. The Chairman of the APC Caretaker Committee and Governor of Yobe State Mai Mala Buni is expected to lead other APC governors to the crucial meeting on convention.