Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed on Wednesday met former President Olusegun Obasanjo behind closed doors in Abeokuta, Ogun State, capital. Mohammed is one of those eyeing 2023 presidency under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The former FCT Minister alongside his aides arrived Obasanjo’s penthouse residence located within the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library in Abeokuta, at about 11:30am and went straight into a closed door meeting, which lasted for about an hour. Addressing newsmen after the meeting, Mohammed explained that he had met Obasanjo over his personal ambitions ahead of 2023. The governor stressed that Nigeria’s leadership should be based on merit towards bringing everybody on board. The governor however stressed he is optimistic of getting the PDP ticket, saying that Nigeria is too large to be ignored. He said “And again, (I came) to discuss some of my personal aspirations because I can’t do anything without telling him. This is because he’s so important to each and every one of us. “What we are trying to do in our party, we know he is not partisan, we know he is an elder statesman par excellence, but we are rebuilding our party, the rancour, we still need him. His voice of wisdom is always very useful. So, I came to sound his opinion on some of the things we want to do in the party and to make sure that we provide Nigeria with the opportunity to rescue Nigeria from the present rancour and division that we have found ourselves in. These are the two main reasons why I came to see him.” Asked on his chances of winning PDP ticket, he said “I’m very optimistic. To me, presidency is a consensus… Of course, every Nigeria should if they can to contribute his or her quota to the growth and development of the nation, especially now that leadership recruitment should be based on merit, should be based on making sure we bring everybody on board to reduce the spate or manifestation of separatism, feelings of disillusionment and disgruntlement, feelings that are capable of dividing us further. “Nigeria is too large and too important to be ignored. Some of us have benefited so much. It is not about me and my aspirations. It is about the country.”