The sanitary condition in Abuja city centre has continued to worsen as sewer lines go bad, leading to an overflow of debris from uncovered manholes onto the streets. The debris and contaminated water from the open sewer holes do not only constitute an eyesore but also emit foul odour that unsettles people staying nearby and passersby alike. People are said to have also crashed into holes with devastating consequences. Although the open sewer holes are more visible on the streets of Utako, they can be found dotting the FCT, especially in Wuse, Maitama, Asokoro, major expressways and flyovers. On the busy road of Utako, Ayuba Gundari, a passerby told this reporter that people have continued to sustain injuries from missing their steps and falling into the uncovered sewer holes. “I know of a mechanic who comes here to repair a car. He fell into the open manhole and fractured his thigh,” he said. A taxi driver, at Wuse Zone 6 said many car owners are losing their tyres and vehicle parts after running into the open manholes on byways and highways. “I personally have had the experience and many taxi drivers, who are always in the rush to overtake, usually fall victim. I want to appeal to the government to do something about this,” he said. The manholes are openings that lead to utility vaults or large vessels to cover up access points for making connections, inspection, valve adjustments or performing maintenance on underground or buried public utility such as water pipes, sewers, telephone wiring, electricity, storm drains, district heating and gas, among others. When contacted, the Director, Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB), Mr Kaka Ali, said the government is aware of the situation, adding that the manhole covers are being stolen by baban-bola (scavengers). “The challenge we have is that most of the manhole covers are stolen by baban-bola boys. He said a meeting has been scheduled between the Executive Secretary of AEPB and the commandant of Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) to arrest the situation. “Also, we are trying to find another way of maybe introducing concrete covers or other things to replace the stolen ones, but we have not decided because the meeting did not hold,” he added.