A leading energy and power innovative company in Nigeria, Elite Logistics and Development Services Limited, has said the organisation, after several years of research, has discovered one of the veritable means to reduce poverty and improve living standard in our homes and communities. It further said the organisation is bringing the solution, which the federal, state and local governments seek, as well as political office holders and NGOs in empowering young people for self-reliance, to their doorsteps to end the era of guesswork in empowerment projects. In a release on Tuesday, the organisation said this is part of its effort in eliminating the bottlenecks associated with running businesses by providing a smart and comfortable kiosk powered by solar energies and usable for different entrepreneurial services for prospective entrepreneurs across Nigeria. This, according to the organisation, will encourage young people to opt for self-employment because of the conducive work environment this innovation offers. It said the Elite Solar Smart Kiosk is carefully crafted with an inbuilt bulb for round the clockwork, rechargeable solar battery for 24/7 power, solar panel to power it all. The release added that the kiosk can easily be locked up safely and is useful for various purposes. The aim is to make available a viable working environment with a guaranteed power supply to ensure efficiency in business. At the moment, the innovative initiative has been adopted by several institutions and entrepreneurs across the country. The organisation has embarked on an awareness campaign to reach businesses and entrepreneurs in the rural and urban communities to boost their businesses and enhance their productivity. The company, therefore, called on political office holders, NGOs, philanthropists, humanitarian organisations, the federal, state and local governments and notable personalities across Nigeria and Africa to see the Elite Solar Kiosk as a channel for empowerment and economic revolution. The organisation has also concluded plans to offer incentives for bulk purchases to ensure that more youths are empowered with this kiosk. “Elite Smart Kiosk is efficiently reliable, powered by solar, aesthetically designed with low cost of maintenance and supports direct employment and empowerment opportunities for young Nigerians. “Elite Solar Smart Kiosk could be used for POS Banking services, Mobile Healthcare Dispensary Units, Exhibition Stands, Unisex Salons, Convenience Store, Display retail outlets, ICT Booths, security centres, multimedia centres and amongst others,” the statement added.