A 33-year-old Dada Olusegun has joined the race for the post of the National Youths Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), even as he assured the youths of inclusiveness if given the opportunity. Making his official declaration through an open letter he addressed to all the APC youths, Olusegun, a communication strategist and youth advocate, said his passion for youth inclusion in politics will form the basis to chart the policy drive and execute a template on inclusiveness for progressive youths on the National Working Committee. He said: “My first and foremost vow to the young people in our party is that I will fight for you and push for your interests with every fibre of my being. “My manifesto titled ‘Eliminating the Rat Race’ (which I will unveil shortly) explains my roadmap into expanding opportunities for young people in our party as we move towards 2023. “I present myself as your best leg forward, your champion within the leadership of our great party and government.” Olusegun also assured that if elected, “I will earnestly agitate for young and qualified progressives; I will ensure they get the right of first refusal when it comes to getting jobs in federal, state and local government levels which will be aided by developing a comprehensive register for young progressives. “My policy drive will birth the Youth Directorate in our great party. The Youth Directorate will seek to facilitate the absorption of young progressives into party structure and organize relevant leadership tutelage and programs to further improve their human capacity development. “Within my first 100 days in office as the National Youth Leader, I will facilitate the creation of the Youth Directorate Office. “Being the National Youth Leader of our party, my office will champion the reorientation of Nigerian youths especially the hordes who have been infested with misinformation, hatred for their fatherland. “The office of the National Youth Leader would ensure the continuation of the Progressive Youth Conference. The conference shall be a yearly event that will bring young members of our great party together to discuss how to advance and further the cause of young Nigerians. “If elected as the National Youth Leader, my office will ensure there is a youth-driven campaign throughout the electioneering process for the forthcoming 2023 General Election. “The office will also have a campaign council comprising of young people who will act and serve as campaign spokespersons for young contestants. “During my tenure as the National Youth Leader, my office will work towards organizing a yearly sports festival named “Progressive Sports Festival. This sports festival will be an avenue for young members of our great party to showcase their sporting talent and as the National Youth Leader, my office will also partner with relevant national and international sports promoters to support, develop and groom the progressive sport talented individuals to the best standard. “As globally agreed that technology is the bedrock of developing a nation, my office will have a special program for the young progressives that are technology enthusiasts at the annual progressive Conference. “An exhibition which plays host to relevant industry players will be incorporated into the Progressive Youth Conference in order to create a pitching avenue for startup ideas. “As the National Youth Leader of our great party, my office will formulate and create an empowerment scheme for the teeming youths.” The politician also promised support for young aspirants. “As the National Youth Leader of our party, my office will champion a campaign of ‘Not Too Poor To Run’ policy. “This policy will seek a reduction in the number of nomination forms for all young progressives within the age range of 18-40 and will also create a level playing ground for them in our great party. While appealing for support, he called on young men and women in the party to see the convention as one that will shape their political lives for the next eight years and beyond.