A former director-general of the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), Salihu Lukman, has accused the chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Committee, Mai Mala Buni, of working to stop APC from holding its convention. The party Monday postponed its convention slated for  February 26. An aide of the governor of Yobe State, Mamman Mohammed, has since dismissed the claim, saying Buni and the party governors were working hard to organise the party. But in a statement Monday, Lukman said Buni is conniving with some governors and “Yahoo Yahoo politicians” to halt the convention. He said, “There is so much uncertainty created, just to ensure that the party is manipulated to meet the aspirations of these dishonest leaders. “Sales of forms to aspiring candidates for party offices to be contested at the national convention was to commence on Monday, February 14, 2014. “The speculation was that forms cannot be sold until zoning of offices is finalised. “Following the departure of President Muhammadu Buhari to the EU-AU Summit in Brussels, the argument became that zoning will only be finalised after his return. “Then it became that there was disagreement among governors on zoning. “The latest is that some governors are opposed to some offices of the party coming to their zones because of their presidential or vice-presidential ambitions. “As things are, today being February 21, 2022, the National Convention is just five days away. Sub-committees to handle specific responsibilities of organising the Convention were expected to have been announced on Saturday, February 19, 2022. “No information has been provided by the CECPC. Now that President Buhari has returned from the EU-AU Summit, the old deceptive argument about Governors having meetings with President Buhari to decide on zoning and other matters related to the convention has started again. “It is clear that Mai Mala Buni is opposed to organising the APC National Convention on February 26, 2022 or any time soon. “Consequently, he is working with other dishonest leaders, notably, Yahaya Bello, Hope Uzodinma, Dapo Abiodun and a few others. “It is a mutiny against the authority of the party and all its designated leaders, especially President Buhari, being carried by very dishonest people who can best be described as Yahoo Yahoo politicians.” Meanwhile, the party has postponed its convention indefinitely. In a letter dated February 21, 2022, Chairman and Secretary of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni, and Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, informed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of the new development.