As fight rages between Russia and Ukraine, some Russian soldiers have been captured by troops in Ukraine. The capture of the Russian soldiers was confirmed by the Conflict Intelligence Team (CIT), a collection of investigators based between Russia and Ukraine. The CIT posted pictures of the soldiers on its Twitter page, showing the weapons the soldiers allegedly had on them. The Russian soldiers were allegedly captured with tanks in the Belgorod region in Russia in the days preceding the invasion and, on Thursday, they were located on the outskirts of Kharkiv. They were said to have multiple cartridges of ammo, knives, and guns on them. “Press officer of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Anatoliy Shtefan has published photographs of what appear to be captured Russian soldiers,” the caption said according to a Google translation. The spokesperson for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Oleg Nikolenko, also tweeted the images of the soldiers. “Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Valeriy Zaluzhny: ‘Ukranian military have taken prisoners, two Russian soldiers of UNIT 91701 of Yampol motorised infantry regiment,” Nikolenko tweeted. He insisted that Russia was suffering losses in this invasion. “Enemy is suffering losses. Four Russian tanks have been burned on Kharkiv ring road,” he tweeted. Another video has also emerged showing the captured soldiers being filmed and interrogated by Ukrainian soldiers. Olexander Scherba, a Ukranian diplomat who served as Ukraine’s Ambassador to Austria from 2014 to 2021, shared the video on Twitter. One of the Russian soldiers being interrogated was heard saying he did not want to go to war in Ukraine but was forced to. “Mama, papa, I didn’t want to go. They made me,” the soldier said when asked what message he has for his parents. The other soldier was asked if he would join the Ukrainians to fight and he answered in affirmative. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia has drawn global attention as world leaders were united in condemning Russia for alleged act of aggression. In yet another operation, some Russian soldiers were arrested and paraded by Ukrainian troops.