A renowned constitutional lawyer and Coordinator, Progressive Lawyers for Osinbajo, PYO, Dr Kayode Ajulo, has said the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, does not need an ultimatum to declare interest to run as President in the 2023 election. He noted that the rumoured ambition of Osinbajo to become the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria through the next presidential election is constitutional and non-negotiable. He said Osinbajo will make an official declaration at the appropriate time, and even contrary to speculations that the number two citizen may not contest despite calls from loyalists and associates. Ajulo stated this while reacting to the 30 days ultimatum given to the Vice President by a pro-APC group, National Coalition Group, NCG, asking him to officially declare interest to run for the Office of the President, on Wednesday, in Abuja. “It is unpopular speculation that Prof. Osinbajo may not contest as president in 2023. “We have even moved beyond the pedestrian stage of thinking if PYO will run or not. It is a prescribed arrangement and we are already preparing for Prof Osinbajo’s presidency because he represents everything Nigeria deserves at these crucial times. “Though we all have been expecting but Prof. Osinbajo has not declared because of the magnitude of responsibilities on his desk as the incumbent vice-President, which are huge and very important to national development and cannot be merged with a presidential campaign that demands very much time dedication too. “And we shouldn’t expect a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and full Professor of law to jump the gun, there’s electoral law and guidelines and he mustn’t be found wanting. “For me, this is another evidence of the VP’s unwearying characteristics of a dutiful man who is committed to the law and development of the country, and would not rank it above focusing on seeking a political office, an office of the president for that matter,” Ajulo said. The former National Secretary of the Labour Party said Osinbajo is arguably the best face of the APC for the 2023 election. He said: “We are in a democracy. But the unfortunate reality of the 2023 political calculation is that Prof Osinbajo is the only credible candidate the APC can present for the election. He’s loved both locally and internationally, and equally enjoys the support of Nigerians across the board. “Prof Osinbajo will contest and win the 2023 election and his campaigns will be done within the ambit of rules and laws, and in accordance with INEC guidelines as against other aspirants’ campaign procedures we have seen in recent times.” Ajulo, recounting his earlier statements on the presidential ambition of the national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, claimed that the former Lagos State Governor is one of the major leaders supporting the Vice President for the 2023 contest. He also said all political steps and strategies of Tinubu towards the 2023 election is in favour of the Vice President.