Senator George Akume Contact Committee (SGACC) has said that the former governor of Benue State and a leading national chairmanship aspirant of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) does not have any running battle with any anti-corruption agency. A national newspaper had reported in an analysis that the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs “may face challenges concerning his running battle with the anti-corruption agency.” But in a letter addressed to the editor of the said Newspapers and a copy made available to newsmen in Abuja, Chairman of Senator George Akume Contact Committee, Chief Simon Shango, said over the span of more than 23 years, Senator Akume has never been invited for questioning by any corruption agency. “The fact of the matter remains that Distinguish Senator George Akume has no running battle with any anti-corruption agency. “As you are well aware, Senator George Akume served two terms (eight years) as elected Governor of Benue State, three terms (12 years) as Senator representing Benue North-West Senatorial District, during which he served as Senate Minority Leader. “Since the second term of President Muhammadu Buhari, Senator George Akume has been the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, a position for which he was screened and cleared by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, before assuming office. “Over the span of more than 23 years, Senator George Akume has never been invited for questioning by any corruption agency. “In any case, the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria allows even an accused person to be presumed innocent until found guilty, how much more of Senator George Akume who has not even been accused of any offence. “We are aware that since our principal started the race for National Chairmanship of APC, everything has been done by his opponents to find faults with him, but to no avail. “This is because it has become very clear that Senator George Akume is the candidate to beat in the race for the National Chairmanship of our great party, APC. “If elected the next National Chairman of APC, Senator George Akume commits to respecting the Nigerian and APC constitutions as well as all party organs and officials. “Senator George Akume is very passionate about taking the APC to the next sustainable level of progress.” Meanwhile, the Contact Committee has also welcomed growing nationwide consensus steadily building up in favour of its principal. In a statement signed by the Chairman of the SGACC in Abuja, Shango, urged the party members and leaders across Nigeria to support the aspiration of Senator Akume to become the National Chairmanship.