The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the country is fast sliding into a state of lawlessness under the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led federal government. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Debo Ologunagba, stated this yesterday while addressing newsmen in Abuja on a recent video released by terrorists on the treatment inflicted on victims of the Kaduna/Abuja train attack. He alleged that the APC government had failed in its constitutional responsibility of protecting the people, noting that at least 18,000 Nigerians had been killed by terrorists between 2020 and 2022. Ologunagba said PDP is “deeply saddened, alarmed and distressed by the video of terrorists mercilessly flogging, inflicting grievous bodily harm and threatening to sell into slavery and kill traumatised victims of the bloody Abuja/Kaduna train attack who have been held in captivity since March 28, 2022, exactly 120 days today. “The APC government has irretrievably failed our nation. Under the APC, Nigeria is fast sliding into a Hobbesian state where rule of law, order and leadership are absent, and where cruel, inhumane and insensitive bunch of human beings in government have abandoned our citizens to killers, terrorists and bandits. “From the video, in a brazen manner, terrorists, as non-state actors, boldly show their faces, boasting, admitting and confirming their participation in the Kuje prison break; some of who are former prison inmates who were either jailed or awaiting trial for their previous terrorism acts against our country. “Between 2020 and 2022 about 18,000 Nigerians have been killed by terrorists who continue to be emboldened by the failures and obvious complicity of the APC and to which the PDP has always drawn attention.” Resign now, NNPP tells Buhari Meanwhile, the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to resign immediately over failure to secure Nigeria. The Chairman of the Katsina State chapter of the party, Sani Liti, made the call during a press briefing yesterday. Liti said the country’s acute insecurity and poverty were a result of bad governance and poor economic policies of the APC government led by Buhari. He said, “The Buhari government has not only failed to uplift the lives of Nigerians as he promised, but soaked the country into deeper corruption and misery. In the event that the president is foot dragging or refuses to resign, we urge the National Assembly to apply constitutional means to save the lives and property of Nigerians. “It shall be pointed out that from 2015 to date more than 50,000 Nigerians have lost their lives to banditry.” He also called on the federal government to as a matter of urgency declare a state of emergency on security in Katsina, Kaduna, Zamfara, Niger and Sokoto states. He said, “In this respect, we are calling for the government to immediately hire mercenaries for six months to fight the rising banditry, insurgency and tribal militia.”  By Baba Martins (Abuja) & Tijjani Ibrahim (Katsina)