President Muhammadu Buhari says he has confidence in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to win the upcoming governorship election in Osun State fairly and squarely. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed the poll for July 16. He said this, Wednesday, when he made the ceremonial presentation of the flag to the APC candidate, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. Buhari, who assured that the party was committed to furthering the development journey of the state, lauded the performance of Governor Oyetola for serving the people tirelessly in his first term in office. The president also hailed the co-chairs of the Osun State Governorship Campaign Council, governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, as well as the vice chairman, Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello for putting in so much energy into the campaign to re-elect Governor Oyetola. In response to the invitation to participate in the grand finale of the rallies, next week, he said, “I hope I will make myself available to boost your morale.” The Deputy National Chairman of the party, Senator Abba Kyari, who presented the candidate on behalf of Senator Abdullahi Adamu, the National Chairman, commended the president for leading the party to victory. Present at APC presentation were the national secretary, Senator Omisore and the secretary of the Osun Campaign Council, who is also the Sokoto State APC gubernatorial candidate, Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu. We’ll defeat you, PDP tells ruling party Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Osun State Reconciliation Committee on Wednesday submitted its report to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, promising that it will assist the party to win the coming governorship election in the state. Addressing members of the NWC and party supporters, the chairman of the committee, Eyitayo Jegede SAN, said the two factions have agreed to work together and deliver victory for the party. Eyitayo said the committee was able to extract commitments from all the factions, adding that they have all agreed that the only way to achieve success is to present a united front. Reacting, the acting national chairman of the party, Ambassador Umar Damagum, commended the committee for the speedy response to the assignment. By Muideen Olaniyi & Baba Martins