The African Youth Development Foundation (AYGF), under the Earth’s Restoration Campaign of the organisation, on Thursday advocated for more tree planting in Nigerian societies as a way of checkmating climate change in the country. This is in commemoration of the 2022 world nature conservation day on Thursday in Abuja. The Executive Director of AYGF, Dr Arome Salifu, who was represented by the AYGF’s Head of Programs, Patricia Akor, said Nigeria is under increasing threat from human activities and natural disasters which is evident with the adverse effects of climate change observe in the country. Salifu said the earth restoration campaign seeks to create awareness of some of the major human activities causing climate change, and the importance of planting more trees to reduce these effects, adding that AYGF is partnering with Print Rite Global Services to organize the tree planting exercise in celebration of the world nature conservation day and is giving out 1000 trees to be planted in FCT. According to him, the initiative is to complement the efforts of the government in line with the sustainable development goals 13 with a mission statement to take urgent action to combat climate change and its impact and Goal 15 with the mission to protect, restore and promote sustainable use of Ecosystem, manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation and biodiversity loss. “Trees are a necessity for the survival of the human race. Without them, it will be difficult to sustain life on earth. Forest played a vital role in the evolution of human beings by fulfilling their need for food, shelter and clothing. ” He added that trees are natural filters which help to absorb carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere through human activities and emit oxygen for human survival, adding that an average tree produces enough oxygen to fulfil the oxygen need of four people. “World nature conservation day is focusing attention on the importance of climate change mitigation, earth conservation and other environmental related issues,” he said. In the same vein, the minister, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, represented by the Deputy Director, Mr Babarinde Segun Mukaila, commended the AYGF’s initiative of raising awareness on environmental-based issues and promised to always support whenever they are called upon.