The House of Representatives on Thursday passed for second reading, a bill seeking to establish the Electoral Offences Commission to independently handle the prosecution of electoral offences and malpractices in the country. The House passed the bill for second reading after the chairman of the Committee on Electoral Matters and Political Parties Affairs, Aishatu Dukku, presented and led the debate on the bill on behalf of three other co-sponsors. It is titled a “Bill for an Act to Establish National Electoral Offences Commission and the Electoral Offences Tribunal to Provide for the Legal Framework for Investigation and Prosecution of Electoral Offences for the general improvement of the Electoral Process in Nigeria; and for Related Matters (HBs.753, 1589, 695, 1372 and 1472)”. Dukku described the bill as a “twin sister” of the Electoral Act, saying when passed into law, it would address the endemic corruption and malpractices in the country’s electoral system. She maintained that a decisive deterrent through effective criminal prosecution is the most effective strategy for defeating electoral offenders in the country, hence the need for the commission. She said it was unrealistic for INEC to conduct free, fair and credible elections and simultaneously prosecute offences arising from the elections. ”Indeed, INEC itself has admitted that it lacks the wherewithal to clear the system. And the inability has helped to sustain systemic election rigging, election violence, vote-buying, disinformation, and declaration of false results. “Activists have argued that it was wrong for INEC to double as a complainer and prosecutor in matters of alleged electoral offences,” she said. Also contributing, the Chief Whip of the House, Tahir Monguno, said “the bill is very relevant and germane in the quest for the country to attain a truly democratic status in the comity of nations, especially against the backdrop of the clamour to deliver an election that is transparent, fair and accountable to the yearnings and aspirations of the people of this country.” 