First Bank Holding Plc has stated that its 10th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on June 20 in Lagos was duly and validly held in accordance with extant laws and regulations. The Acting Company Secretary, Adewale Arogundade, in a statement to the Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX), said that its attention was drawn to an online publication which stated that the Federal High Court in Lagos granted an ex parte order against the company and some other respondents. “FBN Holdings remained unaware of any lawsuit or court order against it until about 3:00 p.m. on Monday when a copy of same was served on it. The order directs FBN Holdings and the other respondents to maintain status quo ante bellum prevailing before our 10th AGM held on June 20, 2022, pending the hearing and final determination of the motion on notice for interlocutory injunction. “Without prejudice to the said court order, FBN Holdings confirms that the AGM was duly and validly held with all requisite regulatory and statutory parties in attendance,” it said. FBN Holdings Plc said that it has briefed its lawyer to review the said ex parte order to ensure its full representation in court on the next adjourned date of July 22. A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, had on Friday ordered FBN Holdings Plc. to maintain the status quo by putting on hold the appointment of Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo as the Group Managing Director and Mr. Julius Omodayo Owotuga as non-Executive Director, respectively. Justice Akintoye Aluko granted the order following an exparte application filed by an aggrieved shareholder of FBN Holding Plc, Mr. Olusegun Onagoruwa.
The applicant, through his lawyer, Mr. Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa (SAN), asked the court to set aside the resolutions reached at the just-concluded annual general meeting (AGM) of the 1st respondent (FBN Holdings PLC) held last month. The court also stopped the respondents from raising or issuing shares and from implementing any of the resolutions reached at the 10th AGM. Named as respondents in the suit are First Bank Holdings Plc, Alhaji Ahmed Abdullahi, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Julius Omodayo-Owotuga, Non-Executive Director and Mr Nnamdi Okonkwo, Group Managing Director.