The Director General of the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS), Prof Abubakar Sulaiman, has said the high turnover rate in the state and national assemblies will be worsen in 2023, with 80 per cent of legislators expected not to return. He said this was partly because of the disadvantaged position of the legislative arm of government; compared to the executive. He spoke on Thursday at a two-day workshop for clerks, deputy clerks and directors of legal departments of Houses of Assembly in Abuja. Insecurity: Nigerians have lost confidence in us, gravitating towards self-help—FG Falana knocks NASS for going on vacation amid insecurity Over 50 senators will not be returning to the National Assembly after next year’s elections having failed to secure their parties’ tickets or opted to contest for other offices. The affected lawmakers blamed the development on the incumbency power wielded against them by their state governors who controlled the structure of parties in their states. Sulaiman said, “The relatively weaker position of the legislature vis-à-vis the other arms of government has not been helped by the high turnover rates that have been on the rise since 1999.” According to him, the recent party primaries “show this stark reality, with 80 per cent of legislators likely not to return in 2023. He further said, “Over the years, this development has further undermined the legislature, eroded legislative capacity and diminished the confidence of the legislature as an institution. “This reality places heavy demands on parliamentary staff who constitute the institutional memory of the legislature. Yet, as you are all aware, despite this strategic importance of the legislative bureaucracy, there has not been sufficient investment in their continuous capacity strengthening. Often, they have had to work under challenging circumstances and with little resources.” He noted that the situation was even worse at the state level, where staff operated without the essential tools and skills. 