The House of Representatives Committee on Customs and Excise has called on the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to streamline the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) which is causing friction between customs and stakeholders. This was part of recommendations contained in an assessment report made by the committee presented to the Comptroller General (CG), Nigeria Customs Service, by chairman of the committee, Leke Abejide, in Abuja. It could be recalled that the committee had last week conducted an oversight visit to the various commands under Zone A, Lagos, which comprises all south western states. He said the committee has observed that there is a lingering impasse between terminal operators, customs, licence agents and other stakeholders over the VIN issue at all the ports. Abejide said the issue is affecting the revenues of Apapa, Tin Can Island as stakeholders have expressed their concerns over its effects on vehicle import. He said: “Revenue of the command is fluctuating due to VIN Valuation that is said to be of two types: standard and non-standard. “This creates problems for operators of the command being an automobile port as importers abandoned their vehicles while some diverted to other neighbouring countries. “Some refused to ship. The command may face dwindling revenue in a short while. If the VIN can’t be streamlined into one within this week, the committee will recommend its suspension pending its work as one system.” He further informed the customs CG that the committee was informed by stakeholders that Port Recovery Levy is being charged indiscriminately by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Responding, the CG of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd), commended the committee for their observations saying it will help the service improve on its operations especially with the expected assent on the repeal and re-enacted Customs Act by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the service has already embarked on various far-reaching reforms which have repositioned most of the operations of the service particularly towards the ongoing plans for the E-Customs operations. 