… No deadline on CVR exercise The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said it processed 186 requests of Certified True Copy (CTC) of documents. The National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee (IVEC), Festus Okoye, said this on Thursday night at the end of the commission’s management meeting. “The commission has been inundated with applications for CTCs of various documents. So far, 186 requests for CTCs, some running into hundreds of pages, have been processed. “The commission is working round the clock, including weekends, to attend to all such requests. “We wish to assure political parties, aspirants, candidates, and all applicants for CTCs of documents that their applications will be treated expeditiously and will be issued in earnest,” Okoye said. On the continuation of the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR), Okoye said the exercise will continue nationwide, and all the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) and electoral officers have been directed to continue with the exercise pending further directives from the commission. He said, “The case at the Federal High Court relating to the terminal date of the CVR came up yesterday Wednesday 29th June, and based on the request of the commission, the court granted an accelerated hearing and adjourned the matter to Monday 4th July 2022 for hearing of the substantive matter. “The commission will give an update after the court hearing next week.” On the uploading of the list and particulars of nominated candidates, Okoye said by the timetable and schedule of activities released by the commission, political parties that conducted valid governorship and state assembly primaries shall upload the list and personal particulars of their nominated candidates between 1st and 15th July 2022. He urged political parties to scrutinize the list and personal particulars of the candidates they propose to sponsor at the election to avoid any mix-up and duplication of names. He also urged the parties not to wait until the last day before uploading the list and personal particulars of their candidates. He said, “The candidates’ nomination portal will shut down at 6pm on 15th July 2022. Political parties that have challenges with uploading documents should contact the commission’s help-desk, through the dedicated telephone lines or contact the candidate nomination centre at the commission’s headquarters.” 