United Kingdom Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, has faced lawmakers’ questions after two of the most senior figures in his government resigned over sex scandal involving Johnson’s ally. The top ministers resigned amid controversy over the prime minister promotion of a junior minister, Chris Pincher, to the position of chief whip despite allegations of sex scandals levelled against him. Finance Minister, Rishi Sunak and Health Minister, Sajid Javid, said they had resigned as they could no longer support the culture of scandal surrounding Johnson’s tenure. BREAKING: Buhari visits Kuje Prison ahead of trip to Senegal Five killed, 879 inmates escaped after attack on Kuje Prison &#8211; FG Borris faced interrogation on Wednesday from members of parliament after the two of the most senior ministers in his cabinet stepped down. The questions sparking tension to the prime minister premised on the promotion of Pincher to chief whip — a key position that involves enforcing party discipline. However, the promotion came despite Pincher being accused of drunkenly groping two men, and Johnson having been made aware of the allegations, DW reported. Meanwhile, Johnson also confirmed that the issue of sexual misconduct had been raised when Pincher was a junior minister in the foreign office, and that he had been made aware of the allegations. He said, “The matter was resolved. It’s absolutely true that it was raised with me. I greatly regret that he [Pincher] continued in office and I’ve said that before. “It is now the subject of an independent investigation and that is the right thing.” Speaking in the House of Parliament shortly afterward, former minister Javid — who has already resigned, said he felt compelled to resign, despite being a team player. “Treading the tightrope between loyalty and integrity has become impossible in recent months… I will never risk losing my integrity,” Javid further explained. Recall that last month, Johnson survived a no-confidence vote that saw 41 per cent of Conservative lawmakers vote to topple him. Also, amid this trouble, a set of other junior ministers announced their resignations on Wednesday, citing the culture of scandal as the reason they were leaving their posts. In his reaction, a conservative lawmaker, who spoke on condition of anonymity to The Start, said, “I suspect we will have to drag him kicking and screaming from Downing Street. But if we have to do it that way then we will.” Meanwhile, the government’s second most senior legal adviser, Solicitor General Alex Chalk, also said the cumulative effect of a series of scandals meant the public no longer believed the government could uphold expected standards of candour. “I regret that I share that judgment,” he said.