Over 199.9 million Nigerians of a 200m population may not have a quality life due to deficiency in electricity access compared to that of the United States. This analysis follows the disclosure by the President, the Nigerian Association of Energy Economics (NAEE), Prof. Yinka Omoregbe, at the 15th NAEE conference in Abuja on Monday, saying among the nine benchmarks to quality and healthy life, Nigeria was deficient in the first which is access to electricity. Omoregbe said: “Let’s look at our country Nigeria with 200 million people; we have a total installed capacity of 13,000 megawatts (MW), only 632.4 people can have a good and healthy life from the energy that is produced; this is completely deficient.” She called for common ground among African countries towards finding a way for the energy transition while utilizing its vast natural resources, instead of the pressure of dumping fossil fuels from the advanced countries pushing actions on climate change. The Executive Secretary, Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF), Dr Bello Aliyu Gusau said global warming is a reality in Nigeria in terms of hotter temperatures and flooding but noted that Nigeria was working towards energy transition by declaring the Decade of Gas and the passage of the Petroleum Industry Act (PIA). The PTDF boss who was represented by the General Manager, Strategic Planning and Documentation, PTDF, Jide Adebulehin, also said the Fund which has hosted the NAEE conference for the sixth time, is retooling its programme towards energy transition by sponsoring research and educational pursuits on renewable energy. Chairman of the conference and Director General of the Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN), Prof. Eli Jidere Bala, emphasized the place of energy in economic development. Prof. Bala, represented by the Director, Energy Policy, Planning, ECN, Engr. Joseph Olayande, said over 600 million people lack access to electricity and 900m people lack access to clean cooking energy. The Chair, Shell Group of Companies in Nigeria, Osagie Okunbor, harped on the need to promote renewable energy as the transition has already begun. “Africa and Nigeria, in particular, cannot be left behind. We need to seize the opportunity in the energy transition business and strategically position ourselves for these opportunities,” he stated.  By Simon Echewofun Sunday & Linda Ifeachor