One of Nigeria’s leading carriers, Dana Air, has increased its frequency on the Lagos-Abuja route with additional flights. The airline said the introduction of the additional flights was strictly based on popular demand, the desire to meet the growing demand and the need to follow through with its strategic route expansion. Spokesman of the airline, Kingsley Ezenwa, in a statement, said, “The additional Abuja to Lagos flights will operate at 12:40pm, 7pm and 8.10pm, while the Lagos to Abuja will be at 2.30pm, 5pm and 6.30pm, and with these additional flights, our customers can rest assured that we will always have convenient, optional flight times on the Lagos to Abuja routes.” He disclosed that the airline was consolidating its network by “providing competitive fares, seamless travel experience and reliable schedules for our guests, and this expansion will be across the network as we take delivery of more of our B737 aircraft very soon. “We want to be available to our guests at suitable times across the network, and our growth has been consistent, meticulous and commendable, and we want to keep it that way for our loyal customers who have kept us going.” Meanwhile, the airline has partnered ELOY Awards’ “Business Shower” to empower women in five states: Rivers, Kano, Abuja, Abia and Lagos. ELOY’s Business Shower is an educative business gathering organised for women in business to inspire and encourage them to build thriving businesses. Speaking on the sponsorship, the Deputy CEO of Dana Air, Sukhjinder Mann, said, “Dana Air’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is impact-driven and broad-based, and we are proud to be doing this in about six states in Nigeria. “Women are a massive asset to any country and we want to add to their development while seeing them grow their skills and small businesses to the benefit of the youths and children.” ELOY Awards is about empowering and challenging thousands of women to be more and do more by providing access to resources, business skills and tools for them to be able to grow, transform and sustain their businesses which will in turn benefit their families and the community at large, said Tewa Onasanya, founder of ELOY Awards.