The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said two political parties, African Action Congress (AAC) and New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), are yet to upload a single nomination of their candidates for governorship, deputy governorship and state assembly elections on the INEC Candidate Nomination Portal (ICNP). National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said this on Wednesday. I resigned from Tinubu campaign team because of Muslim-Muslim ticket &#8211; APC Senator, Abbo Three siblings, four others die in Lagos flooding According to him, as provided for in the timetable and schedule of activities for the 2023 general elections released by the commission on February 26, 2022, all political parties that conducted valid primaries are required to nominate their candidates for governorship, deputy governorship and state assembly elections via the ICNP from 1st-15th July 2022. He said, “So far, the commission has processed 6,995 nomination forms (EC9) uploaded by 16 out of 18 political parties for the constituencies where they intend to sponsor candidates. “However, two political parties, the AAC and NNPP, are yet to upload a single nomination to the portal. The commission hereby reminds all political parties that they have three days left to upload their list of candidates to the ICNP. “The deadline is Friday, 15th July 2022. The portal will automatically shut down at 6.00pm on that date.” On issuance of Certified True Copies (CTCs) of documents, Okoye said the commission had continuously responded to requests for CTCs of documents mainly arising from the conduct of party congresses, primaries and nomination of candidates. He said, “The number of requests processed has now risen to 1,662,987 pages of documents. Sadly, in spite of the commission’s effort, 147 out of 476 requests processed as at today involving 5,646 pages are yet to be collected by applicants.” Okoye appealed to prospective litigants to come forward and collect the certified copies of the documents.