Owners and operators of recreational facilities in Abuja are in pain as they bemoan the potential loss of revenue following the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA)’s decision to enforce park policy which mandates nightlife fun seekers to leave parks by 7pm. The enforcement, which commenced at the popular Eden Garden, Utako, at about 8:14pm, moved to Par Excellence Waterfalls and Park, Unity Global Garden, Grillzhut Garden all in Wuse Zone 5, Deli Restaurant and Garden, Wuse Zone 4 and ended at City Park, Wuse II. Most of the places visited still had nightlife lovers and patrons seated around their tables, who had to flee when the enforcement team stormed the places. Madam Winners Wokoma, who runs a sit-out restaurant at Eden Garden, said her losses due to the policy would be “enough to send someone to the grave,” but added that she will comply with the law. A manager at the elite City Park, Wuse II, Michael Akogwu, told journalists that he opted to close exactly at 7pm in compliance with the directive to avoid trouble with the authorities. He said the revenue loss to his business was very colossal, considering different segments that offer unique services with attractive selling points. Senior Special Assistant on Monitoring, Inspection and Enforcement to FCT Minister, Ikharo Attah, said enforcing the policy was not meant to kill people’s businesses, but to instil a sense of sanity in the parks and recreation sector. While regretting that the good intention of the administration in allocating parks and gardens has been abused, he called for understanding and compliance. He assured that the administration would continue to dialogue with owners and operators of parks, to fine-tune the processes, and ensure seamless implementation. “We came out this night for advocacy enforcement. We have gone round some gardens to ensure compliance with the FCTA Park Policy 2005 that states that parks should close by 7pm, that is why we appear to be very soft. “Everyone is concerned about parks operators; we really want them to make money, but we still need orderliness. Parks are not lounges, nightclubs or hotels. They have specific guidelines on how they should operate. I think with time, everyone will begin to adjust.” 