Opposition parties in Ogun State have asked Governor Dapo Abiodun to start preparing his handover notes, stressing that defeat awaits him like his Osun State counterpart. In a statement by its spokesman, Bankole Akinloye, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said it would mobilise its members and supporters to ensure Abiodun did not return for a second term. Akinloye, therefore, charged party members to renew their commitment towards winning the 2023 governorship election in the state. He said Ademola Adeleke’s victory “remains a symbolic attestation to the fact that no amount of money is big enough to buy a determined mind. We urge all members of our great party to work in synergy with all relevant tendencies and renew their commitment to the cause of liberating the good people of Ogun State who have continually suffered all manners of irresponsibility and avoidable agony, misery and deaths under the perfidious watch of Prince Dapo Abiodun and his sinking ship, the rudderless APC.” Also, the NNPP state Chairman, Oginni Olaposi, told Gov Abiodun to “as a matter of urgency start the writing of his handover notes, noting that the fall of an incumbent governor of APC was a bad omen for Abiodun, hence: “It’s the end of the road for APC election manipulations and Abracadabra.” Similarly, the Lagos State chapter of the PDP has asked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to start preparing handover notes ahead of the 2023 governorship election in the state. The PDP Publicity Secretary in the state, Hon Hakeem Amode, said this in a statement while defending the choice of Funke Akindele as the party’s deputy governorship candidate in the state. He said, “We would like to inform the APC that the table has turned, Lagos State and the good people living therein are tired of the few gathering at their lord’s table to determine the life and living standard of the people of the state. “We hereby urge the party to see the handwriting on the wall and start to prepare the handing over note. We are not surprised that the APC as a party is not finding it easy in its illusive political comfort zone, and we are well aware of their antics and underhand in the previous elections and we are using this opportunity to warn the party to desist from its character assassination, divide and rule tactics and politics of bitterness which have remained the roots of their political gain. “It is imperative to remind the APC that our youths are well-informed now and knowledgeable with information to see beyond the party APC and its government make-believe projects in the state. “We are assuring them those archaic political bravura will not guarantee electoral victory for them come February, 2023.”