Adekunle Akinlade, the gubernatorial candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) in 2019 election in Ogun State, has finally joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of next year’s election. He had resigned his membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) last week. Akinlade was former Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s anointed candidate in the 2019 governorship poll which he lost to Governor Dapo Abiodun. The former House of Representatives member popularly known as Triple A, also contested the APC governorship primary held in May and lost to Abiodun. He had expressed lack of confidence in the governorship primary committee led by Wale Ohu. In a letter addressed to the state Chairman of APC, Akinlade hinged his resignation on the failure of the national leadership of the party to intervene in the internal crisis in the state chapter of the party. He said he could not “in good conscience continue to participate in a process that is characterised by injustice.” Akinlade, however, has officially joined the PDP after dumping the ruling party. The former governorship candidate on Friday afternoon arrived at the PDP secretariat in Abeokuta, to formally declare for the opposition party. He was in company with his aides and the former Deputy Speaker, Tola Banjo. He immediately went into a closed door meeting with the state executive members of the party as well as the PDP gubernatorial candidate, Ladi Adebutu. Shortly after the meeting which lasted about two hours, the state Chairman, Sikirullahi Ogundele, presented PDP membership card to Akinlade. Daily Trust reports that Akinlade had agreed to run with Adebutu as deputy governorship candidate in the next election. Akinlade, in his remarks, said his decision to join PDP was tough. He also confirmed his acceptance to run as Adebutu’s running mate. Akinlade said, “This decision was not an easy one to take. It might not be the most popular decision to take, but I believe it is absolutely necessary. Where we have found ourselves today in Ogun State, the maladministration in the state needs that every sensible indigene of this state must be ready to make sacrifice, must be ready to do whatever it takes to change the course and the trajectory of government come 2023. “In 2019, I ran for the governorship of this state under APM and my brother and this great party, PDP, stood by me and it reflected clearly in the result of that election. “We will do everything we can to make sure that this party becomes victorious come 2023. We will work morning and afternoon, we will work in the night, we will work round the clock. We have done it before under 90 days, now we have seven months to do this. “I have sat down with everybody, I have gone round, I have consulted. Like I said, this was not an easy decision. Things are falling apart in the state, people are being killed, cultists have taken over the state. “I know what my role is as the deputy governor, I will stand with ou, I will stand by you and I will stand behind you. I will give you my advice where necessary, but it is your prerogative to take the advice but I will do my best to make sure that PDP claim victory.”