A sub-regional radio station based in Dakar, Senegal, West Africa Democracy Radio (WADR), has organised a one-day deliberations to deepen conversations around security sector governance and countering radicalism in the Sahel aimed at enhancing peace and security in the region. The gathering, which was held in Abuja yesterday, had experts and major stakeholders working in the area of security, peace building and development in attendance. In her remarks, WADR Station Manager, Mrs Agnes John-Thomasi, said WADR was specifically working in West Africa with funding from the Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA), Senegal Country Office, to implement a project titled: “Providing quality information to promote security sector governance and counter radicalism in West Africa”. She said it was started in September, 2021, for a period of one year aimed at supporting the change of narrative around security and terrorism, focus on governance gaps and increase community engagement in Nigeria, Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. She further said, “It seeks to achieve, but not limited to, making survivors’ stories heard and amplifying voices of communities caught in conflict. And to investigate and produce in-depth reporting on insecurity in the countries of Nigeria, Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. “The focus on the Sahel is pertinent as the region is besieged with so many issues from a political climate that is unstable to security challenges related to natural resources, climate change and the environment and radicalism. “However, these issues are barely addressed in-depth by its own media. The absence of objective narratives, quality and relevant information from the field, the limited opportunities for communities caught up in the conflicts to tell their stories and be part of designing workable solutions is what this project aims to address.’’ She added that WADR had been able to send its journalists to the deep ends of the different countries to bring out the voices of the people from the various levels in order to find a solution to the security situation in the Sahel. Four experts spoke on governance, challenges and solution to the security crisis bedeviling the region. 