The Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, has berated the All Progressives Congress (APC) for flying a Muslim-Muslim presidential ticket, saying it is irresponsible of the ruling party to take its political survival over the stability and peace of Nigeria and the wellbeing of citizenry. The Anglican Bishop of Kubwa Diocese, Rev. Dr. Duke Akamisoko, said this while answering questions from journalists during the 2022 Pre-Synod briefing of the Church on Wednesday in Abuja. 2023: Internal wranglings in APC won’t stop our victory — Adamu 2023: Tinubu, Shettima’s combination winning formula for APC – Northern Speakers’ forum According to him, APC’s same-faith ticket is totally unacceptable to the Anglican Communion as it constitutes a gross abuse of collective sensitivity as a nation. “Muslim-Muslim Ticket at a time like this is a demonstration of insensitivity to the plurality of religion; the polarized nature of Nigeria; the plight of Christians in Nigeria and the feelings of Christians in Northern Nigeria among others.” “In fact, it is a direct Insult on the entire Christendom. APC has made a choice; it is left for Christians in Nigeria to also make their choice. There can never be a rational explanation for such a selfish, greedy and self -centeredness decision by the APC. It is irresponsible of APC to take Its political survival over the stability and peace of Nigeria. “The party ought to have taken a cue from the opposition against his vice-presidential ambition and how President Muhammadu Buhari opted for a Christian running mate in 2015 instead of the Muslim-Muslim ticket. Is APC saying that there is no Northern Christian who is intelligent enough to be its running mate? Is APC saying that there is no Northern Christian who has a political value to deliver victory to it? Definitely, the answer is no,” Akamisoko said. On ASUU strike, the Anglican Bishop warned that any country that does not take the education of its youths serious and was already preparing for doomsday. He said, “For several months, ASUU, NASU and ASUP have been on strike. This is a very bad omen for our country. An idle hand is the devil’s workshop. Youths that are out of school are prone to participate in any act that can breach the peace and security of the country. “Abandoning our Youths in the wilderness of ASUU strike for the past five months is a great disservice to the Nigerian youths and the Nation in general. The Federal Government should place more premium on the education sector, if indeed we are hoping for a better tomorrow.” Speaking on insecurity, Akamisoko said, “As it is, today, nowhere is safe again. Our roads are no longer safe, the rail is no longer safe. And it is so obvious that a larger percentage of Nigerians cannot afford to travel by air. To attend places of worship, to go to market, school, even to stay in one’s house is no longer safe in this Country. “There has never been a time in this Country that insecurity has been at the peak like this. We hereby call on the government to be alive to her responsibility of protecting lives and properties of its citizens.” On corruption and anti-graft war, the Anglican Bishop said that the Federal Government has failed Nigerians in the fight against corruption.