A report titled ‘Where is the Money’, a revenue remittance compliance index of the federal government’s MDAs released in Abuja on Monday, has said the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) and Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund have not submitted their annual financial statements to the Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC) for vetting since 2012 and 2010, respectively, in breach of the Fiscal Responsibility Act (FRA, 2007). The report is a collaborative effort of the OrderPaper Advocacy Initiative (OAI) and its partners in the Growth Initiatives for Fiscal Transparency (GIFT) Nigeria Project. The law empowers the commission to carry out reconciliation of accounts of federal ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) to avoid leakages, monitor and ensure that they do not spend outside of the amounts appropriated to them. According to the first part of the report, out of the 150 MDAs captured, 58 were categorised as ‘Above Average Compliance’, 73 were listed under ‘Average Compliance’ and 19 as ‘Below Average Compliance.’ From a total of 19 defaulting federal agencies listed under the ‘Below Average Compliance Category’, NSITF came out on top, having failed to submit its annual financial statements to the FRC for scrutiny since 2010, while the Nigeria Immigration Service is also in default. Also in the ‘Below Average Compliance’ category are the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), National Pension Commission (PENCOM), Nigeria Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading PLC (NBET), Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC), among others. A total of 73 MDAs under the “Average Compliance Category’ are agencies that have not submitted their annual financial statements between 2018 and 2020. Some of them include the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Federal High Court, Abuja, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) Ltd, Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST), Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Nigerian Investment Promotion Council (NIPC), Nigerian Television Authority (NTA), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), among others. In the ‘Above Average Compliance Category’ are MDAs that have no pending annual financial statement to submit or only that of 2021. Some of them include the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), Nigeria Press Council (NPC), National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Nigerian Export Promotion Zones Authority (NEPZA), Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Nigerian Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) and the National Broadcast Commission). Speaking at the unveiling of the report, the Executive Director, OrderPaper, Mr Oke Epia said, “We are implementing a project we call Gift Nigeria. Gift Nigeria stands for Global Initiatives for Fiscal Transparency and it seeks to interrogate the issues of transparency and accountability in the petroleum sector, especially as it relates to revenue mobilisation and remittances into the Federation Account. Unveiling the report, Mr Chris Uwadoka, the Special Adviser to the FRC Chairman, Mr Victor Muruako, said the report released by OrderPaper and its partners would help his commission in carrying out its mandate. 