The Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service (FCT-IRS) is set to embark on serious enforcement against erring taxpayers. The revenue agency said the decision was to ensure tax payers complied with payment and filing of tax returns. The acting Executive Chairman of the service, Mr Haruna Abdullahi, disclosed this when he paid a courtesy visit to the leadership of the Tax Appeal Tribunal (TAT) in Abuja. Abdullahi said it was no longer business as usual as the service  was  ready and committed to ensure all the taxpayers in the FCT were accountable and responsive to their civic duty, adding that the FCT-IRS was empowered by law to recover all outstanding tax liabilities, as well as penalise defaulters. He said considering the number of the taxpayers in the FCT, it was shameful to see that so many of them were not complying, noting that, “We need to change that. We are engaging the judiciary, security agencies, the media and other stakeholders on this matter. I can assure you, before the year runs out, people will be held accountable. Abdullahi described the visit as a step in the right direction and expressed delight in the quick adjudication of cases by the tribunal. In her response, the Coordinating Secretary of the Tax Appeal Tribunal, Hajara Bolanle Oniyangi, expressed happiness on the visit. She said it was important for the service to harness all areas of revenue generation as permissible by law. Meanwhile,  in recognition of its unrivalled efforts towards building a competent and durable workforce, the Service  has been awarded the status of Approved Employer Recognition by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). The certificate was formally presented to the Acting Executive Chairman FCT-IRS, Mr. Haruna  Abdullahi  at the Service Headquarters in Abuja during a visit by members of the Association. Abdullahi expressed his appreciation to the ACCA stating that the recognition is timely and advantageous as it gives the Service an edge locally and globally particularly in respect to capacity building. Earlier, the ACCA Country Manager in Nigeria, Mr. Tom Isibor explained that the approved employer recognition, is an outstanding achievement packed with vast benefits which the Service should and must explore. 