The Ogun State chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is presently characterised by intrigues as some political sons and followers of a former governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, are joining forces with the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to unseat Governor Dapo Abiodun in 2023. This is sequel to the crisis bedeviling the party in the state, especially as Amosun and Abiodun are at daggers-drawn over the control of party structure. Our correspondent reports that some of Amosun’s loyalists have already jumped ship from the APC to the PDP. Daily Trust reports that the twist appears like a replay of the 2019 political imbroglio in the state when Amosun’s supporters left APC for the Allied Peoples Movement (APM) when it was evident that Abiodun had picked the party’s ticket. Abiodun and Amosun, the friends turned foes, have failed to resolve their political differences which began in the buildup to the 2019 elections. Informed sources told Daily Trust that a sharing formula for elective positions as put forward by the national leadership of the APC to resolve issues between Abiodun and Amosun’s camps hit a brick wall. It was gathered that Abiodun rejected the formula, having lined up his men for all positions, while time was against Amosun’s men who are contesting in the next elections, due to the electoral guidelines. Earlier in the year, some of Amosun’s loyalists dumped him for Abiodun. They include Senator representing Ogun East, Lekan Mustapha, and two commissioners who served in Amosun’s government, Jide Ojuko and Babatunde Ipaye. Last week, Adekunle Akinlade, the governorship candidate of APM in the 2019 elections, finally joined PDP and has accepted to run with the party’s candidate, Ladi Adebutu, as running mate. Akinlade was Amosun’s anointed candidate in the 2019 governorship poll which he lost to Abiodun. The former House of Representatives member, popularly known as Triple A, also contested the APC governorship primary in May and lost to Abiodun. Akinlade had on Friday afternoon arrived the PDP secretariat in Abeokuta, the state capital, to formally declare for the opposition party. He was in the company of his aides and a former Deputy Speaker of the House of Assembly, Tola Banjo. There are hints that other foot soldiers of Amosun expected to formally join PDP include the current House of Representatives Member for Yewa South/Ipokia, Kolawole Lawal, popularly called KLM. Mikky Kazeem, who was a rep member for Abeokuta North/Odeda/Obafemi-Owode, and Rotimi Rahman (Arugbo), a former Chairman of the local government service commission, have also joined the opposition party. Our correspondent learnt that a grand reception is being planned by the PDP for Amosun’s supporters and is expected to hold during the week. “Amosun is indifferent to the defections,” a source in his camp told our reporter. Akinlade in his remarks, said his decision to join PDP was tough, but necessary. However, the APC in a statement by its spokesman, Tunde Oladunjoye, described Akinlade’s defection to PDP as “good riddance”, saying the party would not miss him.