Coleman Technical Industries Limited (CTIL) manufacturers of wires and cables yesterday commissioned a localized fibre optic cable factory in Ogun state, which is first in West Africa. The multi-billion factory is the 5th plant in the African continent as the plant and the technical know-how are being done in collaboration with the largest fiber-optic producer in the world, Corning Inc. The Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer of CTIL, Mr. George Onafowokan disclosed that the drive was to have a localized fibre optic manufacturer in Nigeria and particularly to provide jobs for thousands of people. The development, according to him, was a response to President Buhari’s call for rapid development of digitalization penetration in Nigeria economy and the drive for local content development in country capacity building, driven by the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring (NCDMB). He said, “This is neither the first nor the last, we will be breaking ground on three times the size of this in Ogun state in the next three weeks, which will take the project size. That will build capacity for this country; it will build capacity for West Africa, Central Africa and 50percent of the whole African continent. “It will make Coleman the biggest fibre optic cable factory in African continent. The synopsis of our business is based on the premise of believing in Nigeria and growing local capacity; building the Nigeria ideology and breaking the barriers,” Onafowokan said. He commended the commercial and technical team of Corning Inc. for the confidence and unflinching support accorded Coleman Wires and Cables on the project. In his remark, the Director, Fibre Business in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) at Corning Inc. USA, one of the world’s leading innovators in material science, Mr. Steve J. Candler disclosed that there is a huge opportunity for content in Nigeria and neighbouring countries arising from increasing demand for bandwidth hungry services driven by changes in ‘how we work, entertain ourselves and communicate with each other.’ Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State who commissioned the project commended the company for the giant stride while he assured of continuous support by his government. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo said the factory, he said has finally positioned Nigeria to significantly meet the nation’s demand for cables and wires and provide opportunity for the company to actively participate in the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). 