As the choice of a former governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima, as running mate to the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, continues to generate controversy, Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN), has appealed to Nigerians to ignore the issue of religion but vote for a competent candidate that will deliver results. In a statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Richard Olatunde, Akeredolu said a Muslim-Muslim ticket has nothing to do with performance. He expressed confidence that the Tinubu/Shettima ticket would win election and rescue the nation. “Let’s vote for someone that can do something. The work stops at the table of the president. It is the president that you are voting for. He decides what happens. Whether it’s a Muslim/Muslim or Christian/Christian, it should not matter to us in the South because we fought for this. “I have no doubt that given the opportunity, from what he has done in Lagos, Asiwaju Tinubu will turn things around for the better,” the governor said. Religion should not divide us -Olawepo-Hashim A former presidential aspirant and chieftain of the party, Mr Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, has counselled opinion moulders not to allow religion to further divide the “already divided” country. In a statement by his media office in Abuja, yesterday, Olawepo-Hashim explained that the political aspiration of anybody is not worth the disruption of the unity and peace of Nigeria. “While we all have the right to express ourselves, we should avoid incendiary comments that can further pose huge challenge to our national integration objectives. “Let us quietly make our decisions and express such decisions with our votes,” he said. He said the political parties that are insensitive to national concerns and take some segments of the population for granted must be ready to be punished by the electorate at the polls. “That is democracy; there is no need for quarrel. Those who have bought delegates must know they will have an uphill task buying an estimated 40 million potential voters who may turn out at the next election,” he said. Tinubu/Shettima ticket barbaric, unacceptable – Christian group The Kaduna state chapter of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) has described the Muslim-Muslim ticket as barbaric and unacceptable. The group called on all peace-loving citizens to reject the pattern that is gradually getting entrenched. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the Kaduna State Chairman, Apostle Emmanuel Egoh Bako, to newsmen in the state yesterday. “The new trend of fielding party flag bearers with individuals from one faith is not consistent with our federal system. It has the potency to polarise our beloved nation at this crucial moment when all true citizens are searching for unity. “Therefore, I declare the Muslim-Muslim ticket as barbaric and unacceptable. We shall not let it stand because it showcases our great nation in a bad light,” he said. Ticket will secure victory for APC – Senator Sankara The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Information and National Orientation, Danladi Abdullahi Sankara, said the choice of Senator Kashim Shettima as vice presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has further brightened the party’s chances of winning the 2023 election. Senator Sankara stated this while addressing party leaders and supporters in Jigawa State, according to a statement by his media aide, Muhammad Nazifi. The lawmaker, who represents Jigawa North West Senatorial District, expressed confidence in the capabilities of Shettima, who he described as a competent, cerebral, tested and accomplished leader and administrator who would add value to the presidency of Bola Tinubu in the service of the nation. By Saawua Terzungwe, Abdullateef Salau (Abuja) Bola Ojuola (Akure) & Mohammed I. Yaba (Kaduna)