Chinese automaker, GAC Motors, has expanded its automobile footprint in Nigeria with the launch of the new improved GS4 Crossover SUV, which has become a popular model on Nigerian roads. Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, joined the GAC Motors family led by the chairman, Chief Diana Chen, in unveiling the new machine. The GS4 looks well-proportioned with just the right number of curves and angles. The front and rear ends may come across as generic, but the execution, at least, is not over the top. LED is used on pretty much the entire exterior lighting, but designers resisted the temptation to put anything silly like dancing light patterns or sequential turn signals. As with the GS8, the GS4’s exterior build quality is solid. The paint job is peerless, while the doors open with a nice, weighty feel to them; they also close with the same measure of authority. The infotainment screen itself, sized eight inches, is easy to use and navigate with its tile-based menus. Ergonomically, everything is spot on in the GS4. The thick-rimmed steering wheel offers an excellent amount of adjustment, while the jet-inspired shifter and the rest of the controls operate with a nice, crisp feel to it. As far as compact SUVs go, the GS4 also scores high in terms of practicality. Not only does it have outstanding front passenger room, but it truly amazes at the back as well. Providing tractive effort is a tried-and-tested combination found in other Chinese offerings: a turbocharged 1.5-litre mated to an automatic transmission. General Manager of CIG Motors, Jubril Arogundade, explained that the GS4, which is in its second generation, comes with ample leg room, three driving modes, amazing comfort and fuel economy as well as seamless navigation system. The governor, who was visibly impressed with the drive of the company in Nigeria, said the GS4 is an interactive car with fully automated facilities, which makes driving easier for drivers and other occupants. He explained further that the cordless phone charging device in the interior of the car makes driving more enjoyable, concentrating without the apprehension of phone running out while driving. The governor added that his association with GAC brands dated back to the pre-2019 era when he was elected as the governor of the state and emphasised that he had never been disappointed in all its brands. Chief Diana Chen described the GS4 as a game-changer in the auto industry, a unique model which comes with a 1.5 litre turbocharged engine, which makes fuel consumption low, offers lots of razzle-dazzle for not much money. Like others before it, Chen said the latest brand is equipped with lots of technology and mechanical refinement is not usually the top-of-mind criteria for the product. She explained that with the opening of the G-Style showroom, the company is offering the G-Elite, G-Star and G-Family packages to different segments of the society which comes with numerous benefits. The company had earlier signed a memorandum of understanding with Wema Bank, as the bank undertakes to finance another batch of 1,000 GAC units. The event was graced by top government functionaries, diplomatic corps and captains of industries. GAC vehicles, coming mainly as sedans and Sports Utility Vehicles (SUV), have been widely accepted and being used across the country. 