Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State has described the choice of Senator Kashim Shettima as the vice presidential candidate of the APC as a masterstroke. In a statement yesterday by his spokesperson, Ismaila Uba Misilli, the governor said choosing the former Borno State governor would facilitate the party’s smooth sail to victory in the 2023 presidential poll. He noted that as a committed and loyal party man, Senator Shettima was a great asset to the ruling APC and would add immeasurable value to the presidential ticket. He said, “Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu could not have made a better choice. Shettima is a highly cerebral, eloquent, competent, courageous and cosmopolitan leader who has succeeded in building bridges, reputation and friendships across the country; and I believe he has the capacity, acumen and political sagacity to deputise the Jagaban Borgu.” While congratulating the one-time Chairman of the Northern Nigeria Governors Forum, Governor Yahaya said with his background as a lecturer, banker, agricultural economist, ex-governor and parliamentarian with visionary and patriotic ideologies, Shettima would be a “round peg in a round hole” as vice president. According to him, the Tinubu/Shettima ticket is an excellent combination that has already given APC an upper hand and set the opposition off-balance “as we approach the elections.” He reassured of his personal commitment and support of the APC in Gombe State to the Tinubu/ Shettima ticket, as well as victory for the party in the 2023 elections. We’ll work for their victory – N/West APC stakeholders The North West zone of the ruling APC has buried its agitations for the vice presidential slot and has promised to work with the other zones to ensure victory for the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and his running mate, Kashim Shettima. Tinubu announced Shettima, a former Governor of Borno State from the North East on Sunday as his running mate, putting an end to agitations for the slot. In a statement on Tuesday in Abuja, the North West Zonal Publicity Secretary of the APC, Musa Mailafiya Mada, said the collective decision to support the Tinubu/Shettima ticket was reached in Dutse, the Jigawa State capital, where the APC National Vice Chairman (North West), Malam Salihu Lukman, led a team on a fact finding tour and met with the party’s stakeholders in the state. The statement reads in part: “Prominent among issues raised at the meeting was the emergence of Senator Kashim Shattima as the running mate of the party’s presidential candidate, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and how the zone should position itself in bringing victory to the party at all levels. “Participants resolved to work for the unity of party members and made stronger commitment to mobilise Nigerians to elect Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Sen Kashim Shettima as the next president and vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and all candidates of the APC in the 2023 general elections. “Another important issue discussed at the meeting is the ongoing voter registration exercise which the participants have taken note that the exercise is moving extremely slow due to the inadequacy of capturing systems which results to the poor outcome recorded by the geographical zone.” According to the statement, the Jigawa State Governor, Badaru Abubakar, who was represented by the deputy governor and the party’s governorship candidate in the state, thanked the Lukman-led party officials for visiting the state on the fact finding mission, saying the party was working on how to reconcile aggrieved members in the state.  By Saawua Tezungwe (Abuja) & Haruna Gimba Yaya (Gombe)