A former Vice President and presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has asked stakeholders in the Lagos State chapter of the party to close ranks and work together ahead of the 2023 general elections. Atiku spoke in Lagos during a meeting with the delegates of the party ahead of the party’s presidential primary. He also visited a former Deputy Chairman of the party, Chief Olabode George. He said, “We don’t want Lagos to be under one family. We want Lagos to belong to Lagosians. We should avoid making the same mistake that we have made over the years. I will continue to work with you until we achieve success. “We have a responsibility to send the party away, but we must be united to be able to do that. Lagos PDP has been in disunity for many years. I appeal to Lagos PDP to bring about unity in the party.” Meanwhile, a former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, has urged delegates of the PDP in Kaduna State to rally behind an aspirant who is courageous enough to stand for Nigeria. Speaking in Kaduna on Sunday, Saraki, a presidential aspirant on the PDP platform, told delegates that he was chased and hunted by the present government and yet stood firm for the country. Saraki said, “I have done that and I will always continue to put Nigeria first. As the senate president, I stood for Nigeria, I was chased, hunted but I said no, I am going to stand for Nigeria. So I ask you, if I can do that as senate president, with your support, In Shaa Allah I will do that as the President of Nigeria. “With your votes, we will have security back in Kaduna State, our children will be able to go to school, I am full of energy and I will work and work until it happens.” Meanwhile, Sokoto State Governor and presidential aspirant on the platform of the PDP, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, has said he is the most qualified among all the contestants seeking the PDP’s presidential ticket to contest the 2023 presidency. Tambuwal stated this in Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, during his meeting with PDP delegates. He said he possessed all the leadership qualities to govern Nigeria, adding that he had encouraged peaceful coexistence among all the people in Sokoto State by bringing them from different tribes and religious backgrounds together and would do same if elected president.  From Abdullateef Aliyu (Lagos), Lami Sadiq (Kaduna) & Magaji Isa Hunkuyi, Jalingo