The former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has said that his performance as governor of Edo state, would give him victory in the forthcoming senatorial election in 2023. He said his participation in the election was to prove a point that one doesn’t need to be consumed with bitterness if one encounters any upset in life. Ganduje renames Kano Varsity after Dangote Gunmen Kill Ex-NPC Commissioner, abduct his daughters The former Edo state governor stated this at the weekend while speaking with journalists shortly after winning the ticket for the Edo North senatorial district on the platform of APC. He said, “The people of Edo North, beyond the membership of the APC and even members of the PDP who had benefited from my stewardship as governor of Edo state, would give me their votes.” According to him, in this election, people should ask any aspirant who pledges to represent them, what he has done in his previous capacity for the people. Oshiomhole said, “So, I think the people of Edo North and in every ward of the state would have no had difficulties in identifying my contribution to the development of the wards in each senatorial district of the state. “My participation in this election was to prove a point that people should not be consumed by bitterness if they had a setback. Life is up and down and has valleys and hills, but rugged men are the ones who can navigate the hills and valleys to get to their destinations.” He continued, “At the national assembly, I will do more because I am more exposed now, having been governor for two terms and chairman of APC for two years. “My fate in Nigeria and my party remain strong and never shaken. God will give me the strength and capacity to deliver in a way that everybody would be a winner because there is no loser in a democracy that works for all. ” Oshiomhole, however, assured the Edo people that he would work together with other elected senators to sustain the trust and confidence the people have in him. Recall that Oshiomhole scored 309 votes out of the 317 accredited votes to pick the senatorial ticket.