The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, at the weekend, revealed that plan is ongoing for the construction of a six-lane road that will link the Lekki Deep Seaport to Shagamu in Ogun State. Sanwo-Olu also revealed that the Badagry Deep Seaport would soon be granted official approval by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). The governor made the disclosures in a speech he presented at the 2022 All Markets Conference organised by NDIGBOAMAKA Progressive Markets Association. He noted that the land for the Badagry Deep Seaport had already been secured and that the establishment of the seaport, coupled with the Lekki Deep Seaport, would provide better economic and trading opportunities for businessmen. He said, “A six-lane road will be constructed to link Lekki Deep Seaport to Shagamu and other locations along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. This will take care of evacuation of cargo from the port to other parts of the country.” While commending the traders for their commitment to developing the state, he described the enterpreneurial spirit of Ndigbo, insisting that it was strong and worthy of emulation. He said, “Your contribution to the livelihoods of your host communities has been acknowledged, and in Lagos, we have created together an economy that has continued to grow and position our nation as the biggest economy in Africa. “Trading is a veritable link between producers and consumers, which is the area the Ndigbo traders have tirelessly worked to define the growth trajectory of our dear state. I’m happy that our modest interventions for more growth in this area are visible and being recognised.” He further said his administration would continue to protect business interests of the Igbo people, while promising to make the state habitable for non-indigenes that abided by its laws. Also speaking at the event, the Chairman of United Nigeria Airlines, Dr Obiora Okonkwo, encouraged the NDIGBOAMAKA to work in unison and partnership with government agencies like the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFFAC) in maintaining order in the society. Dr Okonkwo encouraged the group to operate strategically like the Organised Private Sector (OPS) to lobby the Lagos State Government and federal legislators to prioritise laws and policies that would transform trading and market environments. He advised the traders not to vent their anger on customs and other agencies implementing government policies, but take their lobbying in a constructive manner to legislators to alter tariffs and laws inhibiting their activities. Okonkwo further said the conference offered opportunities to engage policymakers and political administrators in charge of commerce to lobby for regulatory actions that would further ease business activities.