The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will, on Saturday, pick its presidential candidate. Though the party has screened 17 aspirants to contest its presidential ticket, five of them are frontrunners. The main contenders are former vice president, Atiku Abubakar; Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike; former Senate president, Bukola Saraki; governors Aminu Tambuwal and Bala Muhammed of Sokoto and Bauchi states respectively. Meanwhile, the velodrome of the National Stadium, Abuja, the venue of the party’s national convention, is already wearing a new look. When Daily Trust visited the venue, Senator Philip Aduda (PDP, FCT) and Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom were on ground to ascertain the level of preparation. The party leaders, however, refused to speak on developments in the party and preparation towards the convention. Campaign posters of the major contenders could be seen competing for attention around the stadium area and Airport Road close to the venue. Party leaders weigh options over crises in states PDP leaders are worried over the crises trailing the party’s primaries across the country. Sources said the party is rattled by the resignation of former Anambra State governor and one of its presidential aspirants, Peter Obi, and the backlash it generated among Nigerians and PDP supporters. Obi had, on Wednesday, announced his resignation from the PDP and withdrawal from the presidential contest. Other top PDP members, like former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu; Senate Minority Leader Eyinnanya Abaribe; former Information Minister Labaran Maku, also withdrew from contesting the party’s governorship ticket in their respective states. Feelers from their states, however, indicated that they are considering leaving PDP and moving to other parties to realise their ambition. Worried about the development, the PDP National Working Committee yesterday met to discuss the way forward. Also, members of the national convention planning committee met at Legacy House, the official presidential campaign office of the party in Maitama, Abuja, over the crises in the state chapters. None of those present at the two meetings agreed to speak. One official said any resolution would be made known after deliberations. 