A presidential aspirant on the platform of New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP), Olufemi Ajadi Oguntoyin, on Thursday withdrew from the race and declared support for former Kano State Governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso. Oguntoyin, an entrepreneur, announced his withdrawal at occasion tagged “South West Agenda for 2023”, in Abeokuta, Ogun State. He said he stepped down in order to serve as Kwankwaso’s running mate in the 2023 election. The aspirant also said he believed in the manifesto of Kwankwaso in order to bring about New Nigeria. “I OLUFEMI AJADI OGUNTOYINBO, having considered many things, and in the interest of our great party and beloved country. Today, I relinquish my presidential ambition, to support the presidential candidacy of Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso as his running mate. “It is all in the interest of our party and our country. You know Senator Kwakwanso is a great Nigerian, accomplished politician and administrator who will lift this country. “I pledge my loyalty at all times to the course of serving our party and country first as a presidential running mate and eventually vice president of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. He also expressed concern about insecurity, joblessness and other challenges in the country. Oguntoyin said, “Nigeria is a country that God Himself has blessed, but look around you today, you will agree with me that things are not working well. “There is hunger in the land, despite the fact that Nigeria has vast lands and a variety of foods and crops. There is insecurity in the country, despite the fact that there is an elected government, with the Police, the Army, the Navy and Air force. Our children finish school and there are no jobs. “Is it not a wonder that there is crime everywhere? Roads are in terrible condition. There is no public water supply, no electricity, and all the basic necessities of life. But we have a government. We have billions of naira in cash and assets. I now ask, What is the missing link? “Distinguished Nigerians, the missing link is selfless, sincere, and servant-based leadership, guided by the highest sense of equity and fairness. That is what we in the NNPP have come to offer.” The State Chairman of NNPP Chairman, Oginni Olaposi described Kwankwaso as a man “God has sent to Nigeria” to deliver the country. He noted that under Kwanwkaso’s presidency, “South West will benefit greatly.”