At least eight governors of  the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) who are in their first terms have clinched reelection tickets. The governors, who have been declared winners of the primaries, will once again fly their party’s flag in the 2023 general elections. Some senators are also fighting to take charge of governance at the state level. In this piece, Daily Trust looks at the outcomes of the APC primaries in some states. NASARAWA In Nasarawa State, Governor, Abdullahi Sule was declared the winner of the APC primaries. Announcing the result, the Chairman of the Electoral Committee, Mr Isa Ibeto, said the governor polled 698 votes to defeat his closet rival, Dr. Fatima Abdullahi, who got only 3 votes in the contest. Gombe and Kwara Governors Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe) and Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (Kwara) have respectively clinched second term tickets. Borno Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum has emerged the 2023 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. The governor clinched a return ticket unopposed during the party primary held on Thursday in Maiduguri. Zamfara Governor Bello Mohammed Matawalle on Thursday clinched the return ticket after the APC primary election in Gusau. In Ebonyi, APC crisis has deepened as two aspirants emerged as the governorship candidates. A former Chairman Revenue Mobilization and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Chief Elias Mbam and Rt. Hon. Francis Nwifuru have emerged winners from  separate primaries in the state. Delta State In Delta State Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege,  emerged winner of the APC primary election in Asaba. Senator Omo-Agege emerged victorious after he polled 1,190 votes in the primary. Enugu A Lagos-based business tycoon, Chief Uche  Nnaji secured the APC governorship ticket for Enugu State unopposed. Abia State Chief Ikechi Emenike emerged as the APC governorship candidate in Abia State having defeated five other aspirants. Announcing the results at Chidiebele arena in  Umuahia, the Chairman of the APC governorship primary election committee for Abia, Chief Tony Obiefuna, said  Emenike polled 672 votes out of 892 votes cast by 907 accredited delegates. Rivers State Tonye Cole, former Chairman of Sahara Energy and an ally of the former Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, clinched the APC governorship ticket in Rivers State. Cole polled 986 votes to defeat Ojukaye Flag Amachree, Seconte Davies, Ibinabo West and Benrard Mikko, who scored 190, 47, 43 and 2 to come a distant second, third and fouth respectively. Plateau Ex Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Dr Nentawe Yilwada, has emerged the governorship candidate of the APC for the 2023 election in Plateau State. Nentawe was elected on Friday midnight, at the party’s primary, held at Landfield Hotel, Jos South Local Government Area of the state. Adamawa Senator representing Adamawa Central, Aishatu Dairu Binani, was declared winner of the APC governorship primary in Adamawa Friday morning, defeating five aspirants including a former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Malam Nuhu Ribadu. Kaduna The current senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Uba Sani, has emerged winner of the APC governorship primary in the state. Uba Sani, who is Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s anointed candidate, defeated a former Assistant Controller of Customs, Bashir Abubakar with 1,149 votes against 37 votes while a former House of Representatives member, Alhaji Mohammed Sani Sha’aban, scored 10 votes. Jigawa The deputy governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Umar Namadi, has clinched the governorship ticket of the APC in the state. In the keenly contested primary, Namadi floored 8 other contestants to win the ticket.