There is a raging division among the governors of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the party’s presidential candidate, multiple sources confirmed to Daily Trust. The division, it was learnt, was borne out the presidential aspiration of four of the governors of the party. They are Governors Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto, Nyesom Wike of Rivers and Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom. Daily Trust gathered that the party’s governors met earlier on Wednesday at the Benue State governors’ lodge in Abuja, but there was no definite outcome on their position. Investigations by Daily Trust revealed that the governors are currently torn between Tambuwal and Wike, with the expectation that Mohammed has a chance to contest for another term. The source privy to the ongoing horse-trading ahead of the party’s primary said four governors are said to be queuing behind Tambuwal while Wike and Emmanuel, who are from the same zone, also have high chances among the governors. Daily Trust further gathered that one governor, who is non-committal to the plan for a presidential candidate from the fold of PDP Governors’ Forum is the Adamawa State governor, Umaru Fintiri, who is strongly behind former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. “This is despite the fact that some people are agitating that the former VP should step down for a much younger candidate. “But the politicking within the governors’ forum is still going and the governors are still in a dilemma on what to do in the present circumstance,” the source added. The National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the opposition party, which commenced at about 8:45pm yesterday, was ongoing at the time of filing this report. Zoning is among the issues expected to be tackled at the meeting. Speaking at the opening before the meeting went into close door, Dr Iyorchia Ayu said the National Working Committee has been working round the clock to reposition the party. He said: “We are also working towards the National convention, and we will brief you later. “The mood of the party is changing, and everyone is ready to work hard and with this spirit, nothing will stop us from taking over power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. Tambuwal, who is chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum, said the transformation of the party is just starting and “we are with you all the way to the National elections.”