The National Power Training Institute of Nigeria (NAPTIN) has attained the Quality Management System (QMS) ISO 9001:2015 certification from the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) after a two-year process. The Minister of Power, Engr Abubakar D. Aliyu, at the presentation of the certification in Abuja on Tuesday, said it will boost NAPTIN’s reforms on capacity building in the power sector. Lagos Free Zone completes N25bn series II infrastructure bonds We never instigated any section to leave Nigeria, Northern Elders Forum replies Presidency Aliyu, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Power, Nebeolisa Anako, said: “The head of service is trying to get certification and we in the ministry will follow the lead of NAPTIN to get certification too. Excellence is what I ask all of us, from other MDAs, to strive towards.” The Director General, NAPTIN, Engr Ahmed Nagode, said the feat would complement NAPTIN’s role of training as a centre of excellence. He said: “I can recollect that the last two years have been a long journey of hard work, tenacity and commitment by all staff of NAPTIN with the promising stamina of reaching the promised land, which is this recognition.” Nagode urged the staff to sustain the status as a legacy for the institute. It is the second time an agency in the power sector is clinching the certification as the Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA) got certified in November 2020. The Director General, SON, Farouk Salim, said with this certification, the institute has joined 722 other organisations that have robust systems with a quality management service. Salim, represented by the Director, Certification Services, SON, Engr Felix Nyado, said the certification is subjected to annual audit. He said: “The certificate will be withdrawn, if the structures in place for certification break down and necessary corrective actions are not taken on observed non-conformance.” The Commissioner, Engineering, Performance and Monitoring, Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), Chidi Ike, said with the certification, “It is no longer a Nigerian thing and the training certificate given by NAPTIN to trainees is recognised all over the world because of this certification.”