The EnterpriseNGR has launched a programme to engage 100,000 youths on internship to improve their employability skills. The Chief Executive Officer of EnterpriseNGR, Obi Ibekwe, at the launch of the programme tagged, Youth of Enterprise, yesterday said the internship is to help nurture Nigerian youth on talents that would be required in the workplace after undergoing a 6 months, paid, internship with partnering firms. Speaking in a virtual event, Ibekwe, identified lack of guidance on career communication and employability as the bane of unemployed youth, saying  the programme sought to address them by finding right job opportunities and empowering them with soft skills needed for success and failure in the workplace. “Current school curriculum does not address this, so together with PWC and other partners, we intend to bridge this gap for young people. We want to mentor, annually 5,000 youth before extending it to 100,000 in 10 years. So, it will be a one stop shop for exploring pathways to career development and actualisation of dreams.” She added that the programme would encourage digitisation and innovation by leveraging the knowledge of how technology has transformed education and workplace culture. “We have built a bespoke technology platform that enables us to make most of YOE process to be online and make them virtual. Such as the recruitment process, training and screen to be virtual therefore accessible to Nigeria youth in every part of Nigeria.”  In his address, Board Chairman of EnterpriseNGR, Aigboje AIG-Imoukhuede, said its vision is to champion the transformation of Nigeria into Africa’s foremost financial centre by harnessing its human capital. He added that the programme would help to democratise access to high-flying career opportunities for every Nigerian and tackle unemployment and under-employment by involving companies in all sectors of the economy. “A large proportion of our graduates are not work-ready as they lack the skills most employers are looking for. This employability issue is what the YOE seeks to tackle. Once we are able to improve the quality of labour in Nigeria, we will positively impact the productive output of the country as a whole. We can also position to be a global labour outsourcing outpost like India and China and this has been made even easier with advancements in technology and the post pandemic work-from-home culture. Our youth after going through our world class internship programme can be employed by firms operating in Nigeria or international firms based in any part of the world,” he said.  On his part, the CEO of Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM), Abba Bello, said employment opportunities is festering in the country due to unemployable status of graduate and collapse of some sector in the country.