Mainstream Energy Solutions Limited (MESL), operator of Kainji and Jebba hydropower plants, has clinched three global operational certifications. The certifications issued by the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) are ISO 9001-2015 on Quality Management Service, ISO 14001:2015 on Environmental Management System and ISO 45001:2018 for Occupational Health and Safety Management System. The Managing Director of MESL, Engr Lamu Audu, said MESL had consistently maintained the objective of generating electricity in a safe and reliable manner. He said the ISO certifications, obtained in line with international best practices, would further boost the company’s quest for excellent service while promoting health and safety. Chairman of the MESL board, Col Sani Bello (Rtd), said Mainstream, since inception, had not recorded a loss time due to injury. He said, “We will continue to contribute to power generation to the national grid. Congratulations to the board and to the management.” The Secretary to the State Government of Niger State, Ahmed Matani, lauded the company for the feat, noting that, “Since the creation of Niger State there was no one corporate entity that had impacted on our communities like Mainstream.” Mohammed Imam, who represented the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission, commended Mainstream for operating the plants according to NERC-approved technical requirements. The Head, Health and Safety, MESL, Prisca Iwunze, echoing a slogan, “Zero harm to man and nature”, said the processes began in April, 2021, with stage one audit in December, 2021, and stage 2 audit in March, 2022. She said, “We celebrated our five-million man-hour without loss time incident in June, 2020, and till date the chain has not been broken.” Agunu Kingsley, who represented the Federal Ministry of Environment, urged the firm to sustain zero harm to man and nature as he pledged the ministry’s support. The Executive Director, Mainstream Foundation, Siraj Abdullahi, lauded the board’s support for the certification process, while acknowledging the Niger State Government for being a good host to the company.  By Linda Ifeachor & Mercy James