Rasheed Kashamu, son of the late Ogun State politician and business tycoon, Buruji Kashamu, has clinched a ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for a State House of Assembly seat. Rasheed emerged candidate unopposed for the Ijebu North state constituency 1 (Ijebu Igbo) during the House of Assembly primaries held on Monday in Ijebu North Local Government. Also, the late politician’s nephew, Taiwo Shote, won the party’s ticket for Ijebu Ode/Ijebu North-East and Odogbolu Federal Constituency as he polled 100 votes to defeat other aspirants. JUST IN: Banky W wins PDP Reps Primaries APC Crisis: Buhari’s in-law rejects Kaduna delegates’ list Speaking shortly after the election, Kashamu’s son said he was elated with the victory, just as he applauded the leaders, elders, ward executives and delegates of the party for finding him worthy of their mandate. Shote, who contested for the same seat, thanked the leaders, elders, local, government ward executives, delegates and the entire members of the party in the federal constituency for their massive support, which gave him the landslide victory. He promised to deliver an impactful, people-based and excellent representation if given the needed support to emerge at the general election. He thanked his fellow aspirants whom he described as his “partners in progress” for accepting the outcome of the primary election. Meanwhile, the PDP House of Assembly and House of Representatives was marred with confusion, allegations and counter-allegations on the delegates’ list. On Sunday, the party conducted some legislative seats’ primaries at the secretariat in Abeokuta over an alleged security threat. The legislative seats are Abeokuta North State Constituency, Abeokuta South I and II State Constituencies, Abeokuta South Federal Constituency and Abeokuta North/Odeda/Obafemi-Owode Federal Constituency. Rotimi George Taylor, an aspirant for Abeokuta North/ Odeda/Obafemi-Owode federal constituency, admitted that the exercise was marred by confusion, delay and multiple delegates list. Taylor also alleged the kidnapping of delegates by some aspirants to coerce them to vote for them during the primaries. He said, “The major problem is the kidnapping of delegates. You cannot kidnap delegates from morning till evening and nobody can communicate with them. What do we know has transpired? I think people should be allowed to come in and make their decisions.” The State Secretary of PDP, Sunday Solarin, debunked the allegation of delegates’ kidnapping. “Nobody was kidnapped. We didn’t have incident of kidnapping anywhere. You know sometimes politicians can behave very funny. Aspirants who don’t have spirit of sportsmanship may begin to raise different allegations,” Solarin stated.