Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, and the Overseer of the Citadel Global Community Church, Nigeria, Tunde Bakare, yesterday, picked their expression of interest and nomination forms to contest for the party’s presidential ticket at the APC presidential primary slated for May 30, 31 and June 1, 2022. Osinbajo’s forms were picked by Senator Kabiru Gaya on his behalf while Nnamani and Bakare personally picked theirs. Answering a question on zoning in an interview with newsmen shortly after picking Osinbajo’s forms, Senator Gaya said, “I believe it is a game of give and take. We have served for the president in this country for seven years under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, so the presidency should go to the South. “That is why we said the best person to handle this matter is somebody who has been in the system (Osinbajo), if he is sworn in today at the Eagle Square, by tomorrow morning he can pick up because he is already in the system. When you are in the system, you don’t have that problem.” He further said it was the turn of the South to produce the next president in 2023, adding that Osinbajo, if given the mandate, would enthrone peace, stability and better economy for the nation. He added that all aspirants were qualified to be elected, but argued that Osinbajo remained the best. Responding to a question asking him to suggest the mode of primary Osinbajo prefers, Gaya said whatever mode the party decided Osinbajo and his team would abide by it. He said, “I believe that whatever the party agrees on is what we will do. The electoral act is very clear; it says either consensus, direct primary or indirect primary. Even when consensus is done and all aspirants agree; that is fair.” Bakare, who also picked his forms yesterday, said he would ensure peace, prosperity, possibilities and progress of the nation if elected president. He said, “Upon those four pillars Nigeria will be rebuilt and the hope of many citizens will be rekindled. We are all going to join hands to make it happen. No other nation will fix our nation.”