Aminu Tambuwal, Governor of Sokoto State and a presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has appealed to delegates of Ebonyi state to vote for him in the forthcoming presidential primaries of the party. Tambuwal, who had served as speaker of the House of Representatives, stated that he had the capacity, competence, character and temperament to provide quality leadership to Nigerians. He made this known on Saturday evening in PDP’s Party Secretariat in Abakaliki when he addressed the party faithful, delegates and his supporters during a consultative visit to the state. Controversy as Edo PDP begins primary elections 2023: Absence of electoral materials threaten PDP primaries in Lagos He said, “I have the competence, I have the right character and temperament to provide leadership and that is why I came this evening to Ebonyi to appeal to you to vote for the right aspirant. “The person that would fly the presidential ticket of our great party PDP and I am that right candidate.” Tambuwal noted that the party needed unity, especially at the state and national level, so as to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming general elections. “I’m sure we want to win House of state Assembly, governor seats, and the two upper Chambers, including Aso Rock, in 2023; then we must remain united in all state levels of the party and in Nigeria”, he stated. The presidential hopeful said if elected, agriculture would be given a boost while economic and social policies would address youth unemployment, insecurity and lack of industrialisation. Ebonyi State Chairman of the PDP, Silas Onu, thanked the presidential aspirant for the visit to the state. Onu promised that by May 29, 2023, PDP would take over the Government House and also Rock Villa. He said, “We are confident that this will happen because from the purchase of forms you will see where the momentum lies. “People beg us every day to put our acts together because they are hoping on PDP to redeem them from the present quagmire.”