A team of the army, police and civil defence has raided and destroyed a kidnappers’ den in Akwa Ibom State and freed two victims. During the operation, a kingpin, Otobong Moses alias Otoabasi, was neutralised, while three of his accomplices were arrested. Speaking on Thursday after the raid in Obon Ebot in Etim Ekpo LGA, Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, 2 Brigade Nigerian Army, Capt Samuel Akari, said the criminal gang was known for terrorising locals, kidnapping, killing and burying their victims who refused do their bidding in shallow graves. Capt Akari revealed that one Sub-Machine Gun (SMG) and a magazine, 67 rounds of 9MM ammunition, two motorcycles, 16 mobile phones, one AK-47 rifle magazine with 30 rounds of 7.62MM special ammunition and nine machetes were recovered. Other items recovered included two military jackets, one helmet strapped with military camouflage, two pairs of military camouflage, one military police beret, one police camouflage face cap, one military pull over, ATM card, two TV sets, standing fan, decoder and four generator sets. Capt Akari said, “In line with operational directives of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) and the Akwa Ibom State Government, troops of 2 Brigade, Nigerian Army, in conjunction with the Nigeria Police Force, the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, as well as other security agencies, raided a well-known kidnappers’ hideout. “The raid operation was as a result of a sustained surveillance on the activities of the notorious kingpin and his syndicate. “The first phase of the operation was conducted on May 12. During the operation, troops raided the criminals’ hideout, but on sighting the troops the criminals abandoned their hideout and fled. “The gallant troops rescued the kidnapped victims and arrested two collaborators of the criminal kingpin, while the shrine, hideout and assorted charms were set ablaze by the troops.” The army spokesman urged residents of the community to return to their homes and continue with their businesses as the security agencies would be on surveillance to ensure peace in the community. 