The Supreme Court will today deliver its judgement on the crisis rocking the Kano State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Daily Trust reports that the party has two factions in the state and while one is loyal to the state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, another which is called the G-7 is led by a former governor of the state, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau. The appellants in the suit at the apex court are Musa Chola and 1,319 others while the respondents are the APC, Governor Mai Mala Buni, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, Olayide Adewale Akinremi, Senator Abba Ali, Dr Tony Macfoy, Auwalu Abdullahi, Usman Kaita, Adebayo Iyaniwura and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Recall that the appellants who are loyalists of the G-7 had secured victory at the court of first instance (High Court) but the victory was short-lived when the Court of Appeal quashed the judgement and returned control of the party to the Governor Ganduje’s group. Dissatisfied with the decision, the appellants approached the Supreme Court for the decision to be set aside, but the respondents argued that the appeal at the apex court has become a routine academic exercise. They (respondents) hinged their argument on the fact that part of the relief being sought by the appellants had to do with the list of delegates for the APC convention, which had since been conducted. After hearing the appeal on April 8, the five-man panel of the Supreme Court led by Justice Mary Peter-Odili adjourned and reserved judgment. One of the counsels involved in the case, however, told Daily Trust that the apex court called them early Thursday to inform them that the judgement was ready and would be delivered on today. It was gathered that since the news of the date of judgment started filtering, all parties have become agitated with the hope that the judgement would favour them. Residents also said they expect security agencies in the state to beef up security to avoid breakdown of law and order after the judgement. I’m still leader of G-7 – Shekarau But a former governor of Kano State and leader of the G-7 faction of the APC in the state, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau, has debunked reports insinuating he has dumped the group. The disclaimer was issued yesterday through his spokesman, Dr Sule Yau Sule, who told Daily Trust the reports were mischievous. “His Excellency (Shekarau) is still the bonafide leader of the G-7 and there is no action he or any of the group members takes that is not known to all other members,” Sule said.