Like in Kano State, many prominent politicians and their supporters are moving to the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP) in droves. The decampees are mostly aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following party congresses which were decided mostly through consensus. Recently, a staunch supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari who was known for organising parties to celebrate the president’s return from foreign medical trips, Alhaji Abubakar Rabiu, dumped the APC for NNPP and even picked the party’s forms to contest Dutsinma’s seat in the Katsina State House of Assembly. Speaking with journalists shortly after picking the forms, Rabiu said his former party, APC, had not done enough to make life better and easier for his people. But speaking with Daily Trust, a close associate of Rabiu said the consensus option adopted by the APC during its congresses pushed him out of the party. Before Rabiu, more than 8,000 members of the APC and the PDP had defected to the NNPP in Katsina State, mostly supporters of Hon Yazzi Muhammad and Hon Al-Amin Yahaya Sani, APC and PDP legislative aspirants respectively. Muhammad said he dumped APC following the outcome of the local government elections, which he noted exposed APC as a party that was not committed to the progress of its members and the people. On his part, Sani said PDP’s insincerity made him leave the party. Recently, a chieftain of NNPP, Prof Sani Lawal Malumfashi, attributed the gale of defections hitting the ruling APC to its poor performance, especially in the area of security. Speaking at the swearing-in ceremony of newly elected executives of the Katsina State chapter of NNPP, Malumfashi said several local government areas had suffered a series of attacks, killings and abductions. He said, “I don’t think the Imam of Katsina or even the chairman of APC in the state will agree to campaign for the governing party in areas prone to banditry.” He further said what Katsina and the nation at large were experiencing under the present administration was a complete departure from what it promised before getting to power. Thousands getting our membership cards daily – NNPP NNPP Chairman in Katsina State, Alhaji Sani Liti Yankwani, said the rate at which the party was receiving new members daily was unprecedented. He said prominent politicians in the state like Engr Nura Kalil, Ibrahim Zakari Ibrahim (Talba), Senator Abdu Yandoma and their numerous supporters had all registered their membership with NNPP. He further said, “These problems of security, hunger, unemployment and many more challenges are the reasons people are leaving the APC, and many more will leave the party.”