Gunshots were heard in the early hours on Saturday at the Niger State All Progressives Congress Secretariat, the venue of the primaries for the House of Representatives for the Chanchaga constituency. Daily Trust gathered that the gunshots were fired by security operatives to disperse the protesting supporters of the APC over an alleged change of the delegates’ list for the House of Representatives primaries in the Chanchaga constituency. BREAKING: Bandits gun down groom, abduct pregnant bride in Kaduna APC Primary: Two killed in Lagos as violence erupts after announcement of results Saidu Balarabe from Makera ward of Chanchaga Local Government told our correspondent that the delegates’ list was changed three times before the primaries. “My wife and my younger brother whose names were on the original list were removed. We didn’t know why they did that. But what we are asking for is that let there be transparency in the primaries. “Those whose names were in the original delegates’ list were at the venue on Friday to vote, they didn’t let them in while the faces we saw as delegates were not known to us,” he said. Balarabe said before the primaries was shifted to Saturday, it was moved to three different locations, from the Local Government party secretariat to the Justice Idris Legbo Kitigi International Conference Centre before it was later moved to the State party secretariat. He said the gunshots were fired because party supporters could not let go of their demands for fair play. Also speaking, Umar Haruna from Limawa ‘A’ Ward said if the original delegates’ list was not adopted for the primaries, the party supporters would be left with no choice but to work against the APC in the 2023 general elections. Also on Saturday at about 11:48 am, supporters of the APC from Gbako Local Government Area of the state stormed the State secretariat of the party to protest the alteration of the State House of Assembly delegates list. One of the Aspirants, Mohammed D. Mohammed Pichiko told our correspondent that primaries was not conducted but a winner was declared after the exercise was postponed. Efforts to reach state party officials was not successful as people were denied entry into the Secretariat by security men.