The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in collaboration with Kano Civil Societies Forum (KCSF) has inaugurated a committee to investigate the alleged killing of three persons during the governorship primary election of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Daily Trust reported how a gubernatorial aspirant in the party, Sha’aban Sharada alleged that some of his supporters were killed while others were injured during the election which was held last Thursday. Presidential Primary: Buhari meets APC governors Pastor allegedly rapes 13-year-old girl seeking prayers The newly inaugurated 11-man committee will be co-chaired by NHRC Coordinator, Shehu Abdullahi and KCSF President, Ibrahim Waiya. Briefing newsmen during the inauguration of the committee, the NHRC Coordinator said, “We are inaugurating this committee to speed up the investigation over the alleged killing of three people. Kano, a peaceful state now faces a lot of crises. “We will engage law enforcement agencies to investigate the killings and possibly prosecute the perpetrators.” Also speaking, KCSF President said the committee, which is expected to submit its report in three weeks, will speed up the investigation of the allegation. Waiya said, “As concerned citizens of Nigeria, who believe in the importance of peace, and therefore conscious of the need to be proactive rather than reactive, to checkmate and mitigate all potential threats to the peace and security of Kano State, especially as the 2023 elections activities have commenced in earnest. “In addition to this, to further sensitize the Kano citizens on the dangers of political violence, and to ensure that all kinds of wanton killings are stopped before the full blown Nigeria: General Elections come 2023.” Consequently, the leadership of the National Human Rights Commission, Kano office as well as the Kano Civil Society Forum, having appreciated the magnitude of the allegation, have both agreed to establish a joint public hearing committee, to provide an avenue for the members of the general public to submit their written or oral memorandum regarding the alleged killings of the three persons at the APC Governorship primaries. Meanwhile, another coalition of civil society organisations in the state has called for the cancellation of the APC primaries in the state over alleged irregularities that marred the exercise.  