Sen. Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso has debunked news making the rounds that he collected $15,000 from Rivers State Governor and presidential aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Nyesom Wike, for each delegate from Kano State and also camped “44 national delegates” in an undisclosed hotel for Wike. “Kwankwaso has collected 15,000 dollars each for Kano delegates with 44 national delegates camped in a secret hotel for Wike,” SaharaReporters had quoted a source in the ongoing PDP convention to have said on Saturday morning. But in a statement issued on his behalf, Kwankwaso described the report as totally false. The statement signed by Ibrahim Adamu, media aide of the former Kano governor, read, “The attention of Distinguished Sen. Mohammed Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso the National Leader and Presidential Aspirant of the New Nigerian People Party (NNPP) has been drawn to a malicious publication; deliberately concocted by an online tabloid with sole intention of defaming the good character, personality and reputation of the Distinguished Senator. “The malevolent information, which is totally false, is to the effect that the Distinguished Senator and national leader of the New Nigeria Peoples Party has received the sum of 15,000 USD from Rivers State Governor Mr. Nyesom Wike for PDP Kano delegates and has housed same in an unnamed hotel. “It is on record that on the 29th of March 202, His Excellency Sen. Mohammed Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso resigned his membership of the People’s Democratic Party and addressed a national press conference to that effect. It is therefore ridiculous that a Presidential Aspirant will entice an opposition party leader with money to woe delegates from his own party. “We deny this spurious allegation in its entirety and urge the general public to discard it as a pigment of the imagination of the online tabloid. We hereby give the tabloid 48 hours to retract the false news item and issue an apology in three national dailies. On the above premise , we urge the general public to disregard the false information as it is totally false and misleading. “Finally, the Distinguished Senator urges his teaming supporters and followers to remain focused and resolute; as such false and mischievous reports might from time to time be sponsored to blemish the soaring popularity of Sen. Kwankwaso. However, we intend to set a good example to perpetrators of such maligning media reports as our team of Lawyers have been briefed and will launch a defamation suit against the lurid tabloid.”