Crisis is brewing in the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the endorsement of the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the second term of office. In Ebonyi State, the crisis is looming over Governor David Umahi’s endorsement of the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Hon. Francis Nwifuru, as his successor in 2023. Eid-el Fitr: Allow peace in Nigeria, Sultan tells politicians IPI Nigeria holds World Press Freedom Day symposium Daily Trust reports that the endorsement of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State for a second term by the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) did not go down well with other stakeholders. One of the groups is the one affiliated to former Governor Akinwunmi Ambode who has allegedly threatened to stage a comeback. Recall that Ambode was denied a second term by the powers that be in Lagos politics. Daily Trust learnt that members of the Ambode group are putting pressure on him to come out and contest against the ‘anointed’ candidate of the party, which is the incumbent governor. A member of the Ambode group told our correspondent yesterday that such a decision would be taken after the holidays. “We will know that after the holidays. But trust me, we will deliver Lagos State for Lagosians. Lagosians want change and we the Ambode group will implement that,” the source said. A former Commissioner under Ambode, Hon. Wale Oluwo had on Sunday dismissed the endorsement of Sanwo-Olu by GAC, saying it was not recognised by the party at the national level. He hinted at plans by the Ambode Campaign Organisation (AMCO) to field candidates at all levels in the state, saying the GAC has no legal backing. The state APC in a statement by the acting Publicity Secretary, Hon. Yesiro Karamo, however, described the Ambode group as faceless. Speaking with our correspondent yesterday, the Secretary of GAC, Hon. Mutiu Are who said he was not interested in joining issues with the former governor, however, challenged anyone with the governorship ambition to come out and test the waters. In Ebonyi State, our correspondent reports that Nwifuru’s endorsement has sparked protest in the state chapter of the party. The state Chairman of the APC, Hon. Stanley Emegha has, however, appealed to the Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led National Working Committee (NWC) to wade in. His appeal was contained in a statement made available to Daily Trust yesterday. He dispelled claims by a stakeholder of the party, Engr. Paul Okorie that old members were being sidelined by the present leadership in the state ahead of the 2023 elections. Okorie’s statement came a few days after the state governor had endorsed the Speaker, Hon. Francis Nwifuru to succeed him in office. Umahi had in November 2020 defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the APC.