Card Options Limited, a Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) concessionaire has launched premium VIP protocol services in partnership with FAAN across Nigerian airports. The annual membership services will enable VIP card holders to access premium passenger facilitation services before and after every flight. The premium services covering 30 Nigerian domestic / international airports ensures VIP airport users are designed to provide significant comfort, refreshments and private, luxurious lounge space while awaiting flight or upon arrival from a journey. Daily Trust reports that membership of Sky Elite enables VIP travelers to avoid the chaos and troubles of packed airport terminals, avoid the queues at airline counters and get expedited security and immigration clearances at the airport in addition to free use of VIP lounges at any of the Nigerian airports. This is the first time such a service would debut in Nigeria as part of FAAN’s Passenger Support Services (PSS) initiatives while all protocol services are rendered exclusively by FAAN’s Executive Protocol Service Team, a unit of the corporate affairs department of FAAN. Spokesperson of Card Options, Oba Michael Soyebo, said the form recently completed its partnership agreement with the Collinson Group, the owners of the Priority Pass scheme, adding that the new partnership effectively allows Sky Elite members access to more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide where Priority Pass Cards are accepted. Soyebo added that Sky Elite is an exclusive product that provides security, comfort and guarantees a relaxed atmosphere to travelling VIPs in Nigeria. “We are concerned that deserving individuals, busy business executives and members of international agencies including our respected royalties are often at the mercy of touts at the airports, this must stop. Our celebrated personalities should be able to relax and enjoy exclusive airport luxury while awaiting their flights or upon arrival to any of our airports. We are greatly excited by our concession agreement with FAAN which enables us to take care of these prescreened individuals and select corporate organizations”.