The Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) will challenge the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for top positions in the 2023 general elections, Iliyasu Gadu a columnist and public analyst, has claimed. Gadu, who dismissed the claim that the party doesn’t have the capacity to compete with the two main parties, said the party has at least 12 million potential voters in the North already. He claimed that the PRP owns the 12 million votes in the North that President Muhammadu Buhari had been boasting of. While speaking on Trust Tv’s Daily Politics on Wednesday, Gudu said; “the successes President Muhammadu Buhari achieved today are actually PRP’s successes. “He is actually a beneficiary of the PRP. The 12 million votes that Buhari counts on are actually votes of PRP-minded supporters.” He added that the PRP supporters were “looking for Mallam Aminu Kano’s second and that is why they transferred it [the votes] to Buhari. It is not that they neglected PRP their mother party.” Gadu said PRP’s chances in the presidency are bright, “because people have realised that we have to go back to the politics of ideology.” “In the old Kano State and in the old Kaduna state, PRP’s records are still there till today what they achieved. The values of the party have not changed,” he said. Also speaking, Babatunde Alli, PRP’s National Secretary, said the party is the only one left with values. He said, unlike the ruling party which charges N100 million, PRP is charging N10 million for the presidential form. He dismissed the allegation that the amount was too much for a party that is not sure of winning elections, adding that: “To be a PRP member, you must be able to fend for yourself, you must be able to fend for your family and if you have anything left you want to support the party with, support the party with it. “We feel someone who has a job, someone who has a business probably would have employed others, his clout should be able to raise N10m with which to help the party to carry out the processes of election and primaries across the country.” PRP was established in 1978 and has formed government over the years. However, it was deregistered in 2012 and only came back to life in 2015.