New powertrain options and a four-wheel steering system arrives for the first time with upgrades on all fronts. The all-new third generation Range Rover Sport has indeed evolved as far as quality design is concerned. Little wonder the Jaguar Land Rover design chief, Gerry McGovern, said the new model “redefines sporting luxury” and that it was “modern, relevant and progressive.” The new jeep is clearly a Range Rover Sport, both in proportion and detail, according to the designer, adding that through the new brand, Land Rover was “reimagining the concept of sustainable modern luxury, offering contemporary technical materials, including lightweight ultra-fabrics with no compromise on quality or performance.” “The new Range Rover Sport leads by example. From focused on-road performance and world-renowned all-terrain capability, a host of exciting and innovative technologies make it the definition of sporting luxury,” the automaker said. The new sport is larger, especially inside, with a 75mm increase in wheelbase, yet it hides its bulk well with a short front overhang and a slightly longer overhang at the back – all supposedly to enhance a sense of movement. From the rear, the design is very clean with minimal creases, a bit like the full-fat Range Rover. The LED rear lights are contained in a black trim strip, no light bars here. There are no fake vents to be seen, apart from a diffuser in the lower bumper. Engine options The new Range Rover Sport is available with a choice of petrol, diesel and plug-in hybrid engines. The automaker said an all-electric version is also in the pipeline which may be debuted in 2024. The plug-in hybrid gets a 3.0-litre straight-six petrol engine paired with a 32kWh battery pack. One can either have 440hp in the P440e or 510hp from the P510e, and both will do a claimed 70 miles on electric power alone. Two diesel options are available, both 3.0-litre straight-sixes and both with mild hybrid assistance. The car owner can choose between the D300 and the D350, with 300hp and 350hp respectively. The petrol engine on the other hand has a mild-hybrid six-cylinder with 400hp, or a 4.4-litre twin-turbocharged V8 with 530hp. Interior The interior of the new Range Rover Sport is a huge step up from the previous car, taking clear inspiration from the full-sized Range Rover. A 13.1-inch touchscreen infotainment system dominates the dashboard, however you’ll be pleased to see some physical climate controls situated beneath. There’s a floating centre console with storage underneath, as well as some cool-looking ambient lighting all around. The two-tone dashboard is separated by a shiny metal trim strip containing the air vents, and the materials used look as premium as they come, with lashings of leather and solid metal. As for technology, in addition to the huge touchscreen you also get a digital drivers display and Amazon Alexa integration, which can be used to control functions on the car using voice commands. Go for the rear seat entertainment package, and you get two more 11.4-inch screens in the rear. 