The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it is considering the possibility of moving sensitive election materials from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to another location. The commission also said it would employ both the manual and electronic methods in the transmission of the 2023 elections results. INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said this yesterday in Abuja at the second quarterly meeting with the media. The apex bank is responsible for the storage of sensitive election materials. Responding to a question on presidential ambition and the partisanship of the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, the INEC chairman said the commission might be forced to find another arrangement for the handling of sensitive materials. “But I understand the context in which the question is asked. But you should also understand the context in which events are unfolding. As we speak, our director of litigation and prosecution is in court. “There is a case in court. We have been invited to state our own side of the story. We usually refrain from talking about such issues because they are essentially subjudice. “But we have already started talking about what alternatives are available to us in case we need to change the arrangement for the handling of sensitive materials. “We have started thinking about it. We are aware of the situation. We will watch the situation. We still have 9 months before the next general elections. Things may be addressed out before then. “I want to assure you that we will not jeopardise the conduct of the election by creating a misconception around the situation in the process,” Yakubu said. The INEC boss said electronic transmission of results would only be employed in the event of disputes during collation. Yakubu said: “There is a need to clear the misconception around e-transmission of results. Many Nigerians equate it with electronic voting where voting can take place from any location.” He said the commission has no power to regulate prices of nomination forms of political parties. He, however, said the commission would partner with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to checkmate the spending of political parties during the poll. He pledged that the commission would also work with the security agencies to ensure the security and safety of journalists and their unimpeded access to all voting and collation locations during elections.