The All Progressives Congress (APC) governors who have picked expression of interest and nomination forms to run for second term are lobbying members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) for automatic tickets. The party has slated May 20, 2022, for its governorship primaries. Our correspondent gathered that governors Babagana Zulum (Borno), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq (Kwara), Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and others seeking second term are meeting with some NWC members and stakeholders to have no opponents in the race. Gov Abiodun had on Wednesday returned his expression of interest and nomination forms to the party’s National Organising Secretary, Suleiman Argungu, at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja, after which he went to the party’s national secretariat and held a meeting with the NWC. Sources hinted our correspondent yesterday that the meeting between Abiodun and the NWC was to finalise discussions over his second term bid. The APC National Secretary, Sen Iyiola Omisore, was said to have received Gov Abiodun on behalf of the National Chairman, Sen Abdullahi Adamu. A source at the APC national secretariat said, “He was assured of a level-playing field, but you know, in politics, that can be interpreted to mean automatic ticket, and that is exactly what the governor is asking for.” Our correspondent was hinted that Sanwo-Olu who was recently endorsed by the Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) in Lagos State was also seeking automatic ticket to run. I’ll win ticket, no shaking – Inuwa Yahaya Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya, on Thursday, submitted his completed forms to the APC National Organising Secretary, Sulaiman Argungu, to contest the party’s ticket for a second term. Speaking with newsmen shortly after submitting his forms, the governor who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Alhaji Abubakar Inuwa Kari, said, “We have a saying in Gombe and I will say it in Hausa, either today, tomorrow or now we are ready for the election, no shaking.”