The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has said the N100m cost of the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential forms is fair. Akpabio, who declared for presidency on the platform of the APC on Thursday, made the observation during an interview on Channels TV. The former governor of Akwa Ibom State said that even in the modern democracy like in America, it is not the candidate that presents himself into an election, but the people. “So, when you talk about Nigeria, just N100 million Nigerians bringing just N1 will give you N100 million; but you are talking about millions of Nigerians who are going to cast their votes,” he said. When asked about how he raised money for presidential forms, Akpabio said that there was a fundraising about a month ago in Kaduna and they raised over N100 million. “At that time I was still consulting to decide whether to run or not. I’m convinced that I’m in the position to move the present administration, the activities, the legacies and everything of the present administration to the next level. Then I assented to their request. “Any serious presidential candidate doesn’t need to go to his bank account to get N100m because you are not the person to vote for yourself. That is why it’s provided even in the electoral act that people should also contribute to ensure fantastic campaign. When people have a buy-in, then you will always remember that you have an obligation to satisfy them.” Commenting on how Nigeria should best be governed in 2023, he said, “Leadership is in my DNA. Political party is always like supermarket, with people coming in and going out. “I know people who left APC in 2019 and one week later they became presidential, senatorial or governorship candidates. So, the decision should not be there. You look at the character and the record. You don’t need to like my face, but please look at my record. If my record is  good enough, then (you) must join hands with youths and women and all those who are clamouring that God’s will should be done in 2023.” 