The Lagos West Senator, Olamilekan Adeola (Yayi), has said that money would not be the determining factor for the emergence of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates as the party prepares for its primaries. Adeola noted that the party’s delegates and the aspirants’ robust agenda, programmes, and manifesto would determine the eventual winners at the primaries and not the amount of money spent to canvas for votes. Fresh crisis brewing in Kano APC as Ganduje’s anointed dep gov candidate mulls defection Sanwo-Olu declares total ban on Okada, 115 impounded He said this during the election of party delegates at his Ward 1, Ilaro in Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun State. Adeola, a senatorial aspirant for Ogun West senatorial district, added that the people are now wiser and “once they made their decision, no one could change it.” He said, “Money will not decide who wins primaries in APC, what is paramount now is that at least everyone has seen those jostling for one position or the other, we have gone round. “Everyone has gone to each local government to meet with the executives, the leaders of the party to sell his programmes, agenda, manifestos and everything that he is capable of doing. “For instance, at the state level, everyone has seen what the governor has done within the last three and half years, in terms of developmental projects, social welfare, educational infrastructure, and many more like that. “So if we are judging who will be our next governor for another four-year term, we can compare. The governor is tested, trusted and reliable. “The same thing applies to those of us jostling for Senate, House of Representatives and the Assembly seat, we have sold our ideas on what we are capable of doing, so I believe the people will decide,” he said. Adeola also stated that people should not see politics as a “do-or-die” affair, adding that the electorate should be allowed to take the final decision through their votes. He noted that Governor Dapo Abiodun had continued to show a good example for everybody to emulate, saying he had remained fair at both governance and party level. “People have their choice to make, you cannot force anybody on the people, politics is not a matter of life and death, once people make their choice and take their decision, there is nothing anybody can do,” he said. The Ward Chairman, Nurudeen Akinlade, said the delegates’ election followed due process.